# 2018-10-30 conda-forge meeting
**Pinned Items**

- Zoom instructions: [+How to connect to zoom](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/How-to-connect-to-zoom-odl94oveHyiRv6UqTtZE5) 
----------

**New items**

- migrate r-base to **x.x** and **noarch: generic**, see https://github.com/conda-forge/r-base-feedstock/pull/60
    - Nobody in the meeting really knows anything about this. Follow up with Isuru, Ray, …?

**Previous items**

- Compiler rebuild status
    - python done for both compiler stacks
    - ~~pending: openblas (numeric stack currently held up)~~
    - Qt: try to build on Azure?
- New approach to reducing CI load https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/647
    - Might be possible to not be totally insecure with work. But nobody is volunteering to do that work right now. :)
    - Pushing PR builds to a staging channel might be a nice UX improvement so you can test anyway.
- Copying packages to gcc7 label https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/892
    - MPI metapackage
    - Just wait for new conda 3.6 with strict channel priority, and then add main label to those builds
- Mergify = auto-merge version bump PRs when CIs pass?
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-maintenance/issues/49
    - Worry about bot not detecting dependency changes
    - Definitely opt-in only at first
    - One possibility: only after an approved review (so you can say “merge assuming CIs pass”)
- Add overlinking error flag by default?

