# 2020-02-05 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

### Your agenda items

* Recurring Anaconda update on what's going on on our side.
    * conda / conda-build update, if any
    * (Eric) Update on "is Anaconda open to opening up permissions on conda-build to others?"
        * In the mean time, maybe more firmly suggest that the distribution team members attend.
* (Eric) Results of conda-forge dev meeting survey
    * (Marcel) Please also send the result/numbers via email to let people who won't/can't attend next week (and to make it more visible than only in HackMD notes).

Push everything below this to next week
* (FF) The blog is "ready" but we need a Jekyll expert to take a look at it.
  The layout and page publication is not OK.
    * https://conda-forge.org/blog/
    * Need some help debugging the site
    * (link to the PR?)
    * Maybe jekyll configuration?
    * (pkgw) 404's on the asset files because they're not being prefixed correctly
    * Maybe ping Rocklin for help?

### Subteam updates

#### Bot
* (CJ) Automerge progress, PRs ready for review, available for beta testing
    * example https://github.com/conda-forge/face-feedstock/pull/2
    * using GH actions to do automerge.
    * To turn it on in your feedstock: https://conda-forge.org/docs/maintainer/infrastructure.html#conda-forge-admin-please-add-bot-automerge
    * tradeoff: increase risk of bad packages and increasing throughput
* (CJ) adding automerge to [could use help feedstocks](https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/blob/master/status/could_use_help.json)
* (CJ) PR open to fix issues with strong exports (CUDA) and outputs (GDAL)
* (AS) dynamodb + keybase.io
    * terraform in shared, encrypted git repo on keybase.io
    * pieces of bot moving to dynamodb
    * pieces of other bits of infrastructure can move to keybase w/ terraform as well (herkou, keys in repos, etc)

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

* Question: are we ready to advertise this? If so should we Tweet and do a NumFOCUS update about it?
    * (IF) Not until https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/9804
    * (jakirkham) that PR probably isn't mergable. #9804 is an attempt at getting this working.
        * Generally, you can add cuda support to an existing feedstock (not documented how to do this)
        * There's no support for testing the cuda support in staged-recipes right now.
    * next steps:
        * write a blog post
        * update docs

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

* (UK) Drone issues: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
    * next steps: UK to reach out to drone.io and ask them about these issues.
    * AS & MvN were talking - we have CI resources on Azure. Change conda-forge.yml for aarch64 so that it gets built on Azure for the emulated environment as opposed to not building on drone.io 
        * (jjhelmus) Azure used to be default - moved to drone because they have real aarch64 hardware and real hardware is faster and less prone to error. 
        * **travis-ci might now be an option too since they have aarch support.**
        * (mvn) given that dotnetcore supports aarch64 now, azure workers might soon.
            * Tracking issue on the MSFT side https://github.com/microsoft/azure-pipelines-agent/pull/2697
    * We're all in agreement that we shouldn't switch back to azure.
    * TODO: jakirkham will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate this. (ping the aarch team)

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-03](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5) Manual upload of builds
    * MERGED!


* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw!


* [cfep-05](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3) dev/rc builds
    * MERGED!


* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply?


* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw.


* [cfep-11](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/18) Automated Closing of Excessively Old PRs on Staged Recipes
    * MERGED!


## Discussion
* Revisit Anaconda team status

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
* Remove conda forge readthedocs.
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks



### Last meeting
* Open up a CFEP about what to do about Python 2.7.
    * [cfep issue #20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/issues/20)
    * [ ] Someone volunteer to drive this CFEP to completion
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support.
* [x] (Eric) Change meeting cadence
    * We're not going to change the meeting cadence. Too much momentum for us on this every-other-wednesday schedule.

### 2 meetings ago
* [x] cfep-11 next steps: Merge PR and ping staged-recipes team they can implement if they want?
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot

### 3 meetings ago

### 4 meetings ago


### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.

