# 2020-09-02 conda-forge core meeting 


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09 )
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/uoxd_bzSRie5Dq1ZrMSvhA)

## Attendees

- Matt B.
- Crystal
- Eric D.
- Marius
- CJ
- Anthony
- Sylvain
- Wolf
- Cheng
- Keith K.
- Mike S.
- few others that didn't get captured
 
## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals are all up to date.
    * screenshare and show the doc monthly?
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)
    * Active Vote: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150

### Your new agenda items

* [x] (MRB) AWS is going to pay our bill 🎉 assuming we can move the account over
* [x] (ED/WV) Machine for Isuru to do windows builds: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150

    
* [ ] (IF) Cross compiling python recipes.
    ```yaml
    requirements:
      build:
        - cross-python    # [build_platform != target_platform]
        - python          # [build_platform != target_platform]
        - pip             # [build_platform != target_platform]
        - cython          # [build_platform != target_platform]
      host:
        - python
        - pip
        - cython
      run:
        - python
    ```
* [x] (CHL) Proposals to drop Python 2.7, < 3.6 support
    * conda: https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/10180
    * conda-build: https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4024
    * Looking at next major version release; ~2020-Q4 or 2020-Q1
    * Possibly consider 3.7 for encoding-related PEPs; choice will depend on how close we are to upstream EOL date for 3.6

* [x] OVH VM: created with the communicated specs. Need to follow up with OVH about getting access.
    * People who need access need to create OVH accounts. Their accounts will be added as maintainers of that project. 
        * Should probably manage with terraform
    * Add OVH to this yaml: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/7f5c62c510104f78d8bd821ad8f34fced8c575c1/src/inst_partners.yaml
    * Render that yaml into jinja2

* (SC) R bindings for mamba: https://github.com/marimeireles/rhumba
    * Screencast: https://user-content.gitter-static.net/eb15dbe3c06bffa8af391f8f58f90240efd15cd5/68747470733a2f2f757365722d696d616765732e67697468756275736572636f6e74656e742e636f6d2f31373630303938322f38393636393235362d61376536626130302d643863652d313165612d383637362d3333313130386532386561322e676966

* (MVN) 
    * [mapping detector](https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/blob/master/conda_forge_tick/pypi_name_mapping.py)
    * [mappings](https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/tree/master/mappings/pypi)
    * Mappings from conda <-> PyPi <-> import_name

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

### Last meeting
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation. Maybe Azure and docker hub 
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers and see if they have the docker hub limitation
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
* [ ] (???) start pushing images to quay (github?)
* [ ] (???) put changes in smithy to make sure we can use those other image locations

**OVH**
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we're adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18

