# 2020-10-07 conda-forge core meeting 


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/aiBphGphSZCGobDEcd-8XA?edit)

## Attendees
    
## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * (AS) Stephanie and Paul!
        * Rely pretty heavily on conda and pull from conda-forge. Looking to participate in that. Looking to make sure packages are secure and traceable

* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * First meeting of the month, screenshare and show the budget?
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)
        * reimbursement request for Anthony isn't showing up yet.
        * (AS) - I have resubmitted to rocket.

#### From previous meeting(s)

* [x] (CJ) libcfgraph import tables
    * example: https://github.com/regro/libcfgraph/blob/master/import_maps/ag.json
    * only looks at .py files so probably does not cover compiled extensions
    * next move is to integrate with depfinder
    * still thinking about how to turn this info into a version requirement
    * Should we turn this into a service? Anyone interested, feel free to open up an issue.
        * Would OVH be interested in hosting this?

### Your new agenda items

* [x] (FF) Python 3.9 update?
    * wait for Ray to weigh in on something
* [x] (MRB/IF/ER/CL) osx-arm64
    * code signing on osx-arm
        * status of conda PR
        * Eli reports that the conda PR works great
* [x] (Wolf) can I use our arm server for robostack?
* [x] (Wolf) upload from robostack pipelines to conda-forge?
    * need to add a policy to staged-recipes where nothing can be added with a "ros-" prefix without pinging wolf.
    * making smithy smarter about this stuff would help a lot
* [x] (IF) automatically generate sysconfigdata files for python
* [x] (MRB) migtoberfest
    * we have three migrations queued up or about to be
        * cuda 11: ~20 feedstocks
        * gfortran 9.3.0: ~320 feedstocks
        * python 3.9: ~thousands of feedstocks
    * should we launch them as they are ready, or should we hold back on one or two?
        * all of them!
    * need to figure gfortran tail char thing
* [x] (Scopz) Can we make a cudatoolkit package or not?
    * I seem to recall that we can, but Isuru seems to think we need something more in writing
        * (KK) nvbugs/3052604: Internal NVIDIA tracking system and ticket number that gives explicit permission to conda-forge for a cudatoolkit conda package for the redistributable pieces per the EULA.
            * Subject to matching the Description, License text + URL, and post-link messaging in this package: https://anaconda.org/nvidia/cudatoolkit
    * This is related to a lack of cudatoolkit v10.1.243 for linux-ppc64le, which is the Summit arch
* [x] (KK) CUDA compatibility changes in 11.x+
    * major versions will maintain SONAMES


### Pushed to next meeting
* [ ] (MvN) Faster provisioning of base build env using conda-lock and micromamba
* [ ] (PI) aka - tiny shell subcommand switcher: https://sr.ht/~pi/aka/

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot
 
 - see above

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

### Last meeting
2020-09-30

### 2 meetings ago
2020-09-23
* [ ] (MRB)
    * do libgfortran name change
    * add target platform to hashes
    * do gfortran migration with bot
    * bump pinnings


### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-09-16
* [x] Get a call set up with Jon Mease about the kaleido staged recipes PR
    * Emailed on 2020-09-16
* [x] (FF) Open up a PR on the python feedstock for python 3.9 and see what fails

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB) start pushing images to quay (https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/152)

**OVH**
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we're adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
