# 2020-01-22 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

### Your agenda items

* Recurring Anaconda update on what's going on on our side.

* (jakirkham) What's the plan for conda / conda-build moving forward?
    * who's taking over maintenance of these projects going forward?
    * Opportunity to onboard someone new from not Anaconda?
        * Is Anaconda open to opening up permissions on conda-build to others?
            * Michael S once he leaves? 
            * Marcel Bargull?
            * Marcelo Trevisani?

* Anacondacon
    * (CJ) breakout session submitted to AnacondaCON
        * deep dive into the automation systems used by conda-forge
    * conda-forge / Anaconda / bioconda / RAPIDS / wolfv (Quantstack & RooS & mamba) summit at Anacondacon?
        * (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
        * (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* (FF) Drop python 2.7
    * (Eric) Open up a CFEP about what to do about Python 2.7.
    * We probably need a statement that says when and why we're dropping py27
    * Anaconda has stopped building py27 packages
    * After the next Anaconda distro release (Feb/March)
    * Anaconda will build the CPython interpreter for py27 when it comes out in March
    * Coordinate timing between Anaconda and conda-forge on python 2.7.
    * Should we make there be a way to "opt-in" to continue building python 2.7 packages?
    * Idea: 
        * Remove python 2.7 from the conda-forge pinnings.
        * Migration to update the feedstocks so they drop python 2.7
        * Have a bot command to let people opt-out

* (Eric) What Pythons are we going to support? 3.6-3.8? 
    * (jjhelmus) Open up a CFEP for this.
    * We have a weak policy (more of a tradition, really) on supporting three python versions -- this was 2.7 plus the most recent 3.x versions.
    * The conda-forge policy was mirroring Anaconda's policy.
    * Should we mirror the CPython policy?
        * Disadvantage is that we will have up to 5 versions in 2021.

* (Eric) Push scheduling to one week out and then every other week.

Push everything below this to next week
* (FF) The blog is "ready" but we need a Jekyll expert to take a look at it.
  The layout and page publication is not OK.
    * https://conda-forge.org/blog/

### Subteam updates

#### Bot
* (CJ) Automerge progress, PRs ready for review, available for beta testing
    * example https://github.com/conda-forge/face-feedstock/pull/2
* (CJ) PR open to fix issues with strong exports (CUDA) and outputs (GDAL)

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

* Question: are we ready to advertise this? If so should we Tweet and do a NumFOCUS update about it?

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

* (Eric) (finally) renamed conda-forge-enhancement-proposals to cfep

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-03](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5) Manual upload of builds


* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy


* [cfep-05](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3) dev/rc builds
    * Voting finished today. The vote has passed


* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle


* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained


* [cfep-11](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/18) Automated Closing of Excessively Old PRs on Staged Recipes
    * Voting finished a while ago, and this has the votes to pass


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting TODOs
* Open up a CFEP about what to do about Python 2.7.
    * [cfep issue #20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/issues/20)
    * [ ] Someone volunteer to drive this CFEP to completion
* (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support.
* (Eric) Change meeting cadence



### Last meeting
* [ ] cfep-11 next steps: Merge PR and ping staged-recipes team they can implement if they want?
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] cfep-04 next steps: jjhelmus to add a comment per notes above
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot

### 2 meetings ago

### 3 meetings ago

### 4 meetings ago
* [ ] (Filipe) CFEP-03: Review, fix any text and merge it in.
    * Minor updates that are needed. This will likely get done in December.
* [ ] (CJ) CFEP-08: Merge in with deferred status
    * Will check in next meeting.


### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.


