# 2020-08-05 conda-forge core meeting 


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09 )
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-05/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)

## Attendees
* Matthew R. Becker
* Cheng H. Lee
* CJ
* Ray Douglass
* Paul Martin
* Isuru
* Keith K
* Sylvain
* Wolf
* Michael Sarahan
* Scopatz
* Helmus
* Marcelo
* Marius van Niekerk
 
## Agenda

### Standing items
* [x] intros for new folks on the call
* [x] (CJ) budget


### Your new agenda items

* [x] (MRB) going to start removing people from feedstocks
    * smithy and the web services have not been removing people from maintenance teams 
      when they are no longer listed in the recipe
    * I put in a bug fix for this
    * I tested the bug fix in various permutations using a test feedstock. Works fine.
    * going to roll it out
        * make an announcement
        * turn it on for the webservices
        * use an admin migration to clean up the rest of the feedstocks
    * No issues or concerns raised

* [x] (MRB) finally finish CFEP-13
    * the output validation appears to be working fine
        * (IF) we still have git clone issues from time to time, but not a huge issue
        * (MRB) The latest smithy fixes though so they should be less and less common as people 
          use the updated version.
    * last step is to rotate the binstar token
        * going to delete all current tokens for conda-forge and make a new one that
          just lives in heroku and admin-requests
    * roll out:
        * make an announcement
        * make a new token
        * update heroku with new token
        * update admin-requests with new token
        * hopefully we don't break anything
    * post roll out cleanup
        * remove any old encrypted tokens from conda-forge.yml in feedstocks
        * put staging token in the azure global cred we use
        * remove individual creds from azure builds
    * Consider dropping building python 3.6 with PGO (Windows builds on appveyor)

* [x] Dropping python 3.6
    * need an announcement cycle
    * should we follow NEP29? NEP29 + 6 months?
        * https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html#drop-schedule
    * End of life for Python 3.x versions:
        * https://devguide.python.org/#status-of-python-branches
    * No pypy for 3.7
        * https://foss.heptapod.net/pypy/pypy/-/wikis/py3.7%20status
    * Action Item: Send to issue (get input from pypy team and others)

* [x] (CHL) Upcoming conda 4.8.4 release; planning for 4.9.0
    * 4.8.4 is (more or less) bug fix only, including two bugs that cause data loss.
        * Expected release date: 2020-08-07 (ish).
    * 4.9.0 in planning:
        * Should be relatively fast follow from 4.8.4 (1-2 months following)
        * Major changes: Isuru's CPU feature flags and osx-arm64 PRs (changes
          virtual package reporting; adds new un-tested, "un-released" platform
          so not appropriate for patch release)
    * (MRB) This one too please: https://github.com/conda/conda/pull/10057
        * looks like it is on 4.9.0

 * [x] (Paul Martin) Repacking intel MKL from intel instead of Anaconda
     * https://github.com/conda-forge/intel_repack-feedstock/pulls
     * https://github.com/conda-forge/intel_repack-feedstock/pull/12
     * Action Items:
         * Request input from Intel on their level of comforat among our options for repackaging
         * If they are comfortable with a direct repackage ask for permissions to scrape the version
           numbers as needed by the bot
         * If Intel is comfortable with bot scraping, put up issue to cf-scripts to enable
         * Check back in one month unless things happen sooner

### Stuff from last week that we didn't get to

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

See items above.

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting

### Last meeting
* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes
* [ ] (Eric) TODO: Make strict an option in conda_forge.yaml and turn it on by default. Open issue in conda-smithy

    
### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] Eric to add a new page to our docs around how to engage with conda-forge and affiliated in a commercial relationship.
* [ ] Eric will get the NVBug link from Keith and archive it in the conda-forge google drive.
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

### 3 meetings ago

### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18

