[hackmd](https://hackmd.io/1njdD77fSoKU7yFN8djgrA?edit)

# 2021-02-24 conda-forge core meeting


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/r5eeo5cGQ7iHG1IgpB6axQ)

## Attendees

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * Daniel Bast (Anaconda distro team)
* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
        * None pending (as of 2021/2/10, CJ)
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)
        * Jan 2021 P&L not posted yet (as of 2021/2/10, CJ)
* [x] open votes


#### From previous meeting(s)

* [x] (ED) Any progress on CFEPs? I think we talked about this a few weeks ago but i dont remember the outcome (punted)
    * No new CFEPs or movement on CFEPS


### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (IF) Intel license agreement. (See email from Nikolay)
* [x] (IF) Google Season of Docs
    * Needs Admin (FF)
    * Needs PoC/knowledge wrangler (MRB)
* [x] (FF) Outreachy updates
    * Approved
    * May do docs, or code
* [x] (MRB) any updates from nvidia?
    * Mike started conversations with decision makers on NVIDIA side
    * Should hear sooner than later
* [x] (MRB) outside sponsoring of GPU queues
    * Have a gpu queue on azure, would need $$$
    * One potential sponsor for $500
    * Details in email
        * Will get onto core email list
    * Technical details?
        * conda-forge.yml changes
        * 6 hr build limit
        * public pool? purchasing vms?
    * Sustainability?
* Core mailing list now supports external posts
    * But not external people viewing things
* NumFOCUS asking for material for funding opportunties
* [x] (FF) Votes for Ryan May and VinÃ­cius
    * TODO (MRB) [ ] do these votes
* [x] (MB) Perl directory layout PR review appreciated :)
      https://github.com/conda-forge/perl-feedstock/pull/49
      * perl noarch packages -> noarch: generic
      * need migration for putting noarch: generic on things (that don't link to perl)
      * still need perl ABI migrations for compiled pkgs
      * only keep one perl version
      * perl6, perl7? perl7 should be the same as perl5, perl6 (aka raku) is independent lang
      * pre-req for porting bioconda perl pkgs to conda-forge



### Pushed to next meeting

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020
    Solved: Let's defer and keep the "mixed model" we have now.

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.
    Solved: defer in favor of the stale bot for now.

* [cfep-15](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020
    Pending: re-pinged pkgw for a second review.

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

* [cfep-19](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/35) Pinning epochs
    * Stalled since July

* [cfep-20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/39) Package split
    * No updates for ~1 month


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2021-02-10

### Last meeting
2021-01-27

### 2 meetings ago
2021-01-06

### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
