# conda-forge core meeting 2022-02-23

[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/yeTyZCnzT6Oc4XE21uW5AQ?edit)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

| Name               | Initials | GitHub ID       | Affiliation  |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------  | ------------ |
| Matthew Becker     | MRB      | beckermr        | cf           |
| Jaime R.Guerra     | JRG      | jaimergp        | Quansight/cf |
| Filipe Fernandes   | FF       | ocefpaf         | CF           |
| Cheng H. Lee       | CHL      | chenghlee       | Anaconda/cf  |
| Dave Clements      | DPC      | tnabtaf         | Anaconda     |
| Jannis Leidel      | JL       | jezdez          | Anaconda/cf  |
| Marcelo Trevisani  | MDT      | marcelotrevisani| CF           |
| John Kirkham       | JK       | jakirkham.      | NVIDIA       |
| Ivan Yashchuk      | IY       | ivanyashchuk    | Quansight    |
| Wolf Vollprecht    | WV       |                 | QuantStack   |
| Katherine Kinnaman | KK       | kathatherine    | Anaconda     |
| Chris Burr         | CB       |                 |              |
| Sylvain Corlay     | SC       | SylvainCorlay   | QuantStack   |
| Isuru Fernando     | IF       | isuruf          | CF/UIUC      |

25 people total

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [ ] intros for new folks on the call

* [ ] (FF) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [ ] open votes

* [ ] 2022 Outreachy / GSoC 
    * Community accepted
    * [Project proposals](https://hackmd.io/uO6vV2V7T8eDyagZ_y7iQA#Project-2-Grayskull-and-Friends) due next Thursday/Friday March 3/4
        * In addition to project propsal also need contribution tasks
        * And Channels for potential interns to communicate with us.
    * Two projects
        * Grayskull and Friends, Jannis, and Marcelo
        * Doc, Matt and Katherine
    * questions:
        * (MRB) did we get info on how to submit and I forgot?
    * todos:
        * DPC will send submission links to teams.
        * DPC will follow up with Jannis to confirm his leadership role on the Grayskull project.


### From previous meeting(s)

* [ ] (JRG) cudatoolkit download/pinning discussion (deferred)

### Your __new__() agenda items

* [X] (Ivan/JRG) adding ROCm/HIP compiler: review of previous attempts (if any) and discussion of ways forward
    * notes 
        * can get a bit of funding
        * all of work appears to be open source
        * what happened in previous attempts?
            * Isuru: 
                * some repos do not have licenses
                * need patches on top of a specific LLVM version
                    * https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/llvm-project
                * we cannot vendor clang because we keep one copy in env
* [X] (WV) boa recipe format support in conda-forge
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1612
* [X] (WV) emscripten / wasm support for conda-forge
    * Existing discussion: https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/7619
    * Make it easier to add new platforms (e.g., OSS BSDs; mobile)
        * IF: start with https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1126 as a reference
* [X] (IF) Help with setting up AWS for cirun
    * Help needed with AWS Images


### Active votes

### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

### TODOs
2022-01-12
* review Qt PR after logs are uploaded
* Add cupython and cuquantum to don't mirror list
* re: `std=c++14`, Wait for Kai to comment and merge the PR
* CJ and Jaime coordinate to Let Maxiconda know that we can't use their logo
2021-12-01
* WV: Set up meet-and-greet call with homebrew team?
* MRB: (repodata patches) make a cron job that runs show_diff.py and posts an issue + commit if it is non-empty
* 
2021-11-03
- Self-hosting CI TODOs: 
    - Change URL from drone.conda-forge.org. Proposals:
        - woodpecker.conda-forge.org
        - ci.conda-forge.org
    - Set up monitoring
        - Quantstack is setting up grafana for the mirror
    - 

2021-10-18

2021-09-22

* [x] (WV): TensorFlow-GPU ready to go, just need to decide if GPU should get prio over CPU?!
    * GPU gets prio

* (MRB) master to main move (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1162)
    * everything done except feedstocks, releases, conda-smithy, and our github actions
        * releases is broken, opened an issue with github
    * some options for feedstocks
        * make sure to change the upload on branch key
    * [x] (MRB) make an announcement on how to update local clones (moved to the issue above)
    * [x] (MRB) make sure to update upload_on_branch (moved to the issue above)


2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI 
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
