# conda-forge core meeting 2022-03-23

[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/wDNKRsEATfS2vtXin2KyQA)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

| Name               | Initials | GitHub ID       | Affiliation   |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------  | ------------- |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-G. | JRG      | jaimergp        | Quansight     |
| Matthew R Becker   | MRB      | beckermr        | cf            |
| John Kirkham       | JK       | jakirkham       | NVIDIA/cf     |
| Dave Clements      | DPC      | @tnabtaf        | Anaconda      |
| Katherine Kinnaman | KK       | kathatherine    | Anaconda      |
| Marius van Niekerk | MvN      | mariusvniekerk  | Voltron Data  |
| Jannis Leidel      | JL       | jezdez          | Anaconda/cf   |
| Chris Burr         | CB       | chrisburr       | CERN          |
| Keith Kraus        | KJK      | kkraus14        | Voltron Data  |
| Eric Dill          | ED       | ericdill        | Voltron Data  |
| Matti Picus        | MP       | mattip          | Quansight/PyPy|
| Saundra Monroe     | SM       | saundramonroe   | Anaconda      | 
| Ralf Gommers | RG | rgommers | Quansight |
| | | | |
| | | | |

19 people total.

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [ ] intros for new folks on the call

* [ ] (FF) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [ ] open votes

* [ ] 2022 Outreachy / GSoC 
    * Community accepted
    * [Project proposals](https://hackmd.io/uO6vV2V7T8eDyagZ_y7iQA#Project-2-Grayskull-and-Friends) due Tuesday/Wednesday March 22 (Americas) / March 23 (Europe)
        * In addition to project propsal also need contribution tasks
        * And Channels for potential interns to communicate with us.
    * Two projects
        * Grayskull and Friends, Jannis, and Marcelo (pyproject.toml support)
        * Doc, Matt and Katherine
    * questions:
        * &nbsp;
    * todos:
        * Have people got time to support Grayskull work?  (JL, DPC will follow up)


### From previous meeting(s)
* (MP) PyPy 3.8/3.9 migration: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/2601

### Your __new__() agenda items

* (JRG) Status of the GPU CI Server

* (JRG/RG) Helping people help conda forge: roadmap and backlog
    * Initial meeting some time ago: https://hackmd.io/0zGSUS71SbOdBsdLtDmGjg
    * start at document: https://hackmd.io/wdysI0InSHKePxQuWQyZLg
    * Numpy docs: https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0048-spending-project-funds.html#defining-fundable-activities-and-projects
    * TODO: Articulate suggested mechanism for "so you're thinking about taking a contract to work on conda-forge". tl;dr is you should work on a design doc with the impacted parties (or working groups, or interested folks) on the conda-forge side. Once you have agreement on the scope, delivery timeline, and anything that's needed from the conda-forge volunteer side, go ahead and sign that contract with your payer. if you don't do this first, you may encounter some difficulties finishing delivery of your contractual agreement with your payer.

* (WV) Some more OCI registry work going on (here are some uploaded packages: https://github.com/users/wolfv/packages/container/package/osx-arm64%2Fxtensor)
        * Try out with oras (https://github.com/oras-project/oras): 
            * Pull index.json: `oras pull ghcr.io/wolfv/osx-arm64/xtensor:0.24.1-h3e96240_0 -t application/vnd.conda.info.index.v1+json`
            * That will put a file in `xtensor-0.24.1-h3e96240_0/info/index.json`
            * Pull package -- pass (`-t application/vnd.conda.package.v1`), pull `info`-bundle: `application/vnd.conda.info.v1.tar+gzip`
    * Some initial python script here: https://gist.github.com/wolfv/3222408bd46ab3114e5b384f20252c10
    * Uploading 3 files per artifact:
        * .tar.bz2 package file (`application/vnd.conda.package.v1`)
        * .conda package file (`application/vnd.conda.package.v2`)
        * info/index.json (`application/vnd.conda.info.index.v1+json`)
        * info.tar.gz bundled info folder as tar.gz (`application/vnd.conda.info.v1.tar+gzip`)

* (CB) Add `-fno-merge-constants` to default GCC flags? ([ctng-compiler-activation-feedstock#63](https://github.com/conda-forge/ctng-compiler-activation-feedstock/issues/63))
    * going to gather more info before we make any decisions

### Active votes

### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

### TODOs
2022-01-12
* review Qt PR after logs are uploaded
* Add cupython and cuquantum to don't mirror list
* re: `std=c++14`, Wait for Kai to comment and merge the PR
* CJ and Jaime coordinate to Let Maxiconda know that we can't use their logo
2021-12-01
* WV: Set up meet-and-greet call with homebrew team?
* MRB: (repodata patches) make a cron job that runs show_diff.py and posts an issue + commit if it is non-empty
* 
2021-11-03
- Self-hosting CI TODOs: 
    - Change URL from drone.conda-forge.org. Proposals:
        - woodpecker.conda-forge.org
        - ci.conda-forge.org
    - Set up monitoring
        - Quantstack is setting up grafana for the mirror
    - 

2021-10-18

2021-09-22

* [x] (WV): TensorFlow-GPU ready to go, just need to decide if GPU should get prio over CPU?!
    * GPU gets prio

* (MRB) master to main move (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1162)
    * everything done except feedstocks, releases, conda-smithy, and our github actions
        * releases is broken, opened an issue with github
    * some options for feedstocks
        * make sure to change the upload on branch key
    * [x] (MRB) make an announcement on how to update local clones (moved to the issue above)
    * [x] (MRB) make sure to update upload_on_branch (moved to the issue above)


2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI 
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
