---
tags: [meeting-notes]
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-08-09

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Matthew R Becker        |  MRB     | beckermr         |           cf                |
| Katherine Kinnaman      |  KK      | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Chris Ostrouchov        |  CO      | costrouc         | Quansight                   |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [x] (JK) GLIBC 2.28
    - ARM / Power
    - NVIDA CUDA static libraries (namely cudart) using 2.17 symbols only (others like cudadevrt or culibos use none?)
    - (MRB) Should we mark existing glibc 2.28 sysroots as broken? Will submit PR and see what happens.
    - SUSE as an option potentially? Will wait and see; still unclear where everything stands
- [x] (JK) Adding `conda-libmamba-solver` to Miniforge
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/issues/284
    - Jaime (absent): I won't be able to attend today but I am very interested in solving the question above. Miniconda already ships conda-libmamba-solver, and by the September release it will be the default solver (i.e. a `conda` dependency). So it will end up in Miniforge at some point when we update to 23.9 or above. The question is: shall we ...
      - a) ship `mamba` in Miniforge too
      - a2) the above, and deprecate Mambaforge
          - and add links that redirect "mambaforge" -> "miniforge"
          - use copies to ensure old installs work (if no redirect option)
      - b) let `mamba` in Mambaforge only, and keep both installers separate, with the only difference being the presence of the `mamba` Python package (but note that libmamba and libmambapy are there)
     - Discussion: generally have miniconda/miniforge (include conda-libmamba-solver)
         - Are we dumping the pypy installers? keep (Up to Matti and others to decide)
             - Handling PyPy as separate item (so keeping PyPy installers for now)
     - List of artifacts
         - https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/tag/23.1.0-4
     - Consensus is a2
- [x] (JK) TexLive?
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/texlive-core-feedstock/issues/84
    - We'll need to discover and solve dependency issues before we deprecate (if we choose to do so).
    - We don't want to maintain a full (La)TeX distribution.  Maybe add a caveat that this is for small bits of TeX, not a "full" distribution. (Reset expectations)
    - Plan to add README (maybe also `description` in `meta.yaml`) to reset expectations about this package
    - Point out release and migrator merged recently
- [x] (JRG) `osx-arm64` native runners. Possibility to ask for sponsorship to MacStadium ([they do it for Homebrew](https://www.macstadium.com/customers/homebrew)) or Scaleway ([they have an OSS program](https://www.scaleway.com/en/about-us/open-source-program/)).
  - JRG: Sorry I will be absent but this was discussed briefly in the core chat and in case anyone missed it, posting it here for visibility.
  - JRG: Scaleway offers "up to" 2400€/year for OSS projects. M1 runners cost 0.11€/h, so we can afford around 2.5 runners.
      - Asked Amit about cirun support for scaleway
- [x] (MRB) Cirrus CI
    - Limited free usage due to cryptominers
    - Cost is rather high and may involve self-hosting (ToS)
    - Running out of credits would mean it would stop suddenly (bad UX story)
    - Will look at other options

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (JK) Windows ARM
- [ ] (CHL) How long should we keep `osx-64` support?

### CFEPs

- [ ]
