---
tags: [meeting-notes]
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-10-04

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | Argonne National Laboratory |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Eric Dill               | ED       | ericdill         | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Carl Anderson           | CPA      | barabo           | Anaconda                    |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
| Matt Becker                        |  MRB        |  beckermr                | cf                            |

15 people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (JK) NumPy 2.0 planning
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1997
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-repodata-patches-feedstock/issues/516
    - HV: Should be possible to only build against 2.x, result [will be](https://githubx.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/4816#issuecomment-1717038980) ABI-compatible with 1.2x
        - IF: It will **not** be ABI compatible if the package author changes
          `NPY_TARGET_VERSION` macro. Need ways to ensure that it does not happen.
    - NumPy 2 coming out early next year.
    - What's our timeline?
    - JK: Ask the NumPy devs to embed the NPY_TARGET_VERSION in the resulting binaries as a string?
    - Will continue further discussion.

- [x] (JL) FYI the creation of a conda "build tools" team under conda governancy policy (still federated until team figures out team charter) for conda-build and hopefully other build tools, welcome to join:
    - [ ] https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4698

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items


- [x] (HV) Drop PyPy on aarch/ppc?
  - PyPy support is already stretched very thin, to the point that we considered dropping it (c.f. [here](https://github.com/conda-forge/pypy3.6-feedstock/issues/104)), haven't done a pypy3.10 migration yet, various high impact bugs remain, etc.
  - We have no CI on the [feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/pypy3.6-feedstock) for aarch/ppc (cannot cross-compile, travis times out), and manual builds put extra strain on maintenance, and sometimes just don't happen (e.g. missing 7.3.12 & 7.3.13, the last two versions), meaning missed bugfixes etc.
  - Rather than risk PyPy support overall by overwhelming the PyPy devs (or demanding that someone from core do manual builds for every PR), I suggest to drop PyPy on aarch/ppc; usage numbers for those builds are on the order of 1 in 10'000 users. This is not great, but IMO more sensible vis-Ã -vis the very constrained PyPy-resources.
  - Isuru does these builds.  This is not causing larger problems in CF, therefore, it's up to maintainers (Isuru) to make this decision?
  - Axel: But it has been a problem for some downstream packages.
  - Axel: will report problems as they arise.
  - AI: If we want to drop PyPy ARM/PPC, raise an issue on the webpage repo or pinning repo to discuss
- [x] (HV) Compiler bump: GCC 13 & Clang 16
  - [PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/4890) is ready, relevant info in the OP.
  - Isuru: Clang 16 now, GCC 13 in a bit.
- [x] (JRG) Intention to submit a CZI EOSS6 letter of intent with Wolf.
  - Rough draft: https://hackmd.io/m_dJizu9TWGRI8RprLO-Yg
  - Theme: the future of conda-build, transitioning to new tooling (`boa`, `rattler-build`) and improved build reproducibility in conda-forge.
  - Interested in knowing if this is a terrible idea.
  - Deadline: Oct 16th.
- [x] (JRG) GPU CI status:
  - Passing CI for x64 `cupy` at https://github.com/conda-forge/cf-autotick-bot-test-package-feedstock/pull/466 with [global cirun config](https://github.com/conda-forge/.cirun) (simpler conda-smithy changes)
  - [`admin-requests` PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/1703) ready. Jaime to review / debug in the coming days.

- [x] (IF) m2-recipes https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/24112
- [x] (WV) Sovereign Tech Fund contract
    - [ ] libsolv - Rust port
    - [ ] rattler-build conda-forge integration
    - [ ] conda-forge reproducibility evaluation
- [x] (WV) Please don't forget to vote for conda steering council :)

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
