---
tags: [meeting-notes]
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2024-01-24

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Michael Sarahan   | MCS   | msarahan                 |       NVIDIA/CF             |
| Marius van Niekerk  | MvN  | mariusvniekerk | Voltron Data/CF   |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/CF                 |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

12 people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (HV) How do we introduce `{{ stdlib("c") }}`?
  - Design [objections](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/5053) were withdrawn, functionality is released in conda-build 3.28 already.
  - Main question is how to roll out this change broadly. I suggest to keep it tightly scoped to just the C stdlib for now (though the possibility of linking it with a dedicated [migration](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/2015) for `error_overlinking: true` remains an option, if we want).
  - (IF) Think we should have a mini-migrator (piggyback) so we don't have to rebuild all C/C++ packages; only rebuild when we really have to.
  - (MvN) Agrees that we should take a lazy approach to migration; maybe have a list of some packages to eagerly migrate
  - (MvN/IF) We can safely assume that the "world is flat" -> dependent packages won't need to be migrated as well.
- [x] (HV) [Migrate](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/5191) boost 1.84? 
  - Recently we've migrated every 4th release of boost; previously it happened more often (every second release). There was a suggestion by a core member (Uwe) to migrate for 1.84; I think it'd be worth doing.
  - After the big refactor with 1.82 (splitting off header-only lib, adding run-export), it should be easier to migrate nowadays.
  - (IF) We should collect/review data on how long it takes to perform a boost migration, and use that to judge how often we should update. e.g. if it takes 3 months, then maybe once a year is sensible; if it takes 1 month, then every six months?
- [x] (KE) Can we create an sccache store to reduce build redundancy?
  - (MvN) Big question is, "where do we put the cache?"
      - (MCS) Do we have contacts at MSFT or other cloud providers we can talk with?
  - (MvN) `conda-build` behavior complicates caching; e.g., use of timestamps in build env names can leak into cache if not careful
  - (IF) When do we need sccache? E.g., does building different build numbers vs [upstream] versions benefit from cache?
  - (MCS/KE) Opinion at Nvidia is Rapids can't get on conda-forge because it would take too long to build. Exploring if sccache would make conda-forge distribution feasible.
      - (IF) using Quansight-hosted builder may be an option
      - (KK) Building all of Rapids likely a bigger job than PyTorch or TensorFlow. May also want to consider splitting into per-device architecture builds
  - (MCS) Need clear motivation to distribute Rapids via c-f; don't want to overload c-f infrastructure otherwise
      - (KK) Currently not possible to [easily] depend on cuDF, cuML

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
