:orphan:

Google Season of Docs 2023
==========================

   Thanks for your interest in applying for Google Season of Docs with conda-forge. We welcome
   applications from individuals from all backgrounds, identities and abilities and encourage
   applications individuals from under-represented groups in tech.

Proposal title: Restructuring the conda-forge documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------

About conda-forge
-----------------

`conda-forge <https://conda-forge.org/>`__ is a community effort and a `GitHub organization
<https://github.com/conda-forge>`__ which contains repositories of conda recipes and thus provides
conda packages for a wide range of open-source software and tools. The built distributions for
these pieces of software are uploaded to anaconda.org/conda-forge and can be installed with
``conda``, ``mamba`` and other tools.

2023 marks the 8th anniversary of the conda-forge organization. Over these 8 years, it has served
more than 1.2M package artifacts, which account for 10B downloads via anaconda.org. None of this
would be possible without the work of more than 4.6K volunteers!

How does conda-forge work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

conda-forge is built for and around the conda packaging ecosystem. A conda recipe contains the
dependency metadata and instructions to build and package a particular project, usually from
source.

New recipes are first submitted to the ``conda-forge/staged-recipes`` repository via a pull request
(PR). Once reviewed and approved, the recipe is merged and granted its own repository, called
*feedstock*. A feedstock is a standard GitHub repository within the conda-forge organization,
containing the user-provided ``recipe`` and the supporting configuration and tooling required for
the builds.

For each PR merged in a feedstock, a series of artifacts is built for the package (changes such as
releasing a new version or adding a new dependency require rebuilding the package for
ecosystem-wide compatibility). All contributions to a feedstock happen through PRs.

How is conda-forge organized?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The conda-forge organization is led by the `core team
<https://github.com/orgs/conda-forge/teams/core/members>`__. The core team also receives support
from many volunteers, like ``staged-recipes`` reviewers or the domain-specific ``help-*`` teams.
Anyone can contribute to conda-forge's `documentation <https://conda-forge.org/docs/>`__ through
pull requests that are reviewed and approved by at least one member of the *core* team.

Project Idea: Restructuring the conda-forge documentation
---------------------------------------------------------

The problem
~~~~~~~~~~~

conda-forge.org was created almost 8 years ago (when the conda-forge project was established).
After 8 years, its documentation has grown organically through the contributions of many members of
the conda-forge community (users, contributors, and the core-team). While this has helped keep some
documentation up-to-date, it also has added several issues:

-  Right now, one must know precisely what one is looking for to find its documentation. Thus
   newcomers might find navigating and consuming the current structure problematic or confusing.
-  Some pages (e.g. knowledge base) have grown too much and are lengthy.
-  There is a significant overlap between some sections. The same ideas might be discussed
   separately, with only partial agreement and out-of-date information, reducing the usability of
   the documentation.
-  It is often difficult to know where new information should belong, making it hard to further
   improve the documentation and onboard new contributors.

Your project's scope
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This project will:

-  Audit the existing content in conda-forge.org and propose an alternative classification of the
   content borrowing concepts from the Diátaxis framework.
-  Migrate and adjust the existing content to follow the proposed re-organization in
   `cf-infra-docs.netlify.app <https://cf-infra-docs.netlify.app/>`__. This will be done in
   iterative steps and focused on better organizing existing documentation.
-  Identify and implement accessibility best practices for technical documentation (see References
   at the end of this document) during the migration process.
-  Suggest a contribution workflow including review guidelines and an itemized list of critical
   aspects that new contributions need to abide by (e.g. accessibility best practices, where and
   how to place new content items, style guides)
-  Identify missing content and propose an outline to fill the existing gaps.

Work that is out of scope for this project:

-  Write new content pieces from scratch even if identified as missing (e.g. tutorials)

How would we measure success?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  A report of the existing content that discusses its weaknesses and strengths and solutions to
   address the identified problems via Diátaxis will be published.
-  A migration plan that reorganizes the existing content into a maintainability and
   usability-first structure. Such a plan will be shared with the community, and we will, at the
   same time, ensure any existing URLs can be forwarded to avoid confusion among our current users.
-  Once approved, the old content will be migrated to the prototype website at
   `cf-infra-docs.netlify.app <https://cf-infra-docs.netlify.app/>`__ and worked on as needed (to
   complete the migration plan).
-  Documentation contribution guidelines will be available and enforced during the review process.
-  The number of open PRs and issues about documentation (57 and 61, respectively, as of March
   2023) is at least reduced by 50% over the following calendar year.

Timeline
~~~~~~~~

+---------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Dates                     | Action items                             |
+===========================+==========================================+
| May                       | Technical writer is hired                |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| June-July                 | Audit existing content and propose       |
|                           | restructuration plan                     |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| August-October            | Migrate and adjust content following the |
|                           | plan above                               |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| November                  | Establish documentation contribution     |
|                           | guidelines and review checklist          |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------+

Project budget
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

================ ========= ============= =====
Budget item      Amount    Running total Notes
================ ========= ============= =====
Technical writer 10,000.00 10,000.00     
TOTAL                      10,000.00     
================ ========= ============= =====

Skills needed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Required:

-  Familiarity with the Diátaxis framework
-  Proficiency in written English
-  Awareness (and ideally, experience in) of writing inclusive and accessible documentation or
   content
-  Ability to work with people from diverse backgrounds

Nice to have:

-  Knowledge about Python, ``conda`` and/or packaging concepts
-  Previous contributions to Docusaurus-based websites (or websites built with a static JS
   framework and Markdown).
-  Comfortable with Git, GitHub and pull request driven workflows

Volunteers
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra (`@jaimergp <https://github.com/jaimergp>`__): main person of contact

Contact info
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Technical writers interested in working on this project should send an email to
jrodriguez@quansight.com. Please include links to your technical writing work or
portfolio/résumé/CV.

Feel free to reach out via Element / Matrix (`@jaimergp:matrix.org
<https://matrix.to/#/@jaimergp:matrix.org>`__) before sending your application.

Additional information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

conda-forge is also participating in Google Summer of Code 2023. The chosen GSoC candidate will be
in charge of creating a style guide for the new conda-forge website, as well as implementing best
practices in accesibility.

The Google Season of Docs work will be in charge of providing the content counterparts to this
effort. Together, the team will end up providing a new, modern, maintainable,
easy-to-contribute-to, accessible website for the conda-forge community.


Addendum
--------

Additional context
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The current documentation can be found at Sphinx-based ```conda-forge.github.io``
<https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io>`__ repository, with some blog posts coming
from ```blog`` <https://github.com/conda-forge/blog>`__. Both use ReStructuredText syntax and are
built with Sphinx.

A new Docusaurus-based prototype website is also available at `cf-infra-docs.netlify.app
<https://cf-infra-docs.netlify.app/>`__, where new documentation is being written for the
conda-forge infrastructure. The idea is to use this prototype site as a playground for new content
organization ideas and experiments. This site uses Markdown syntax.

We will write the content in vanilla Markdown, which both engines support.

Useful references
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  `conda-forge.org documentation <https://conda-forge.org/docs>`__

   -  `conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io
      <https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io>`__
   -  `conda-forge/status <https://github.com/conda-forge/status>`__
   -  `conda-forge/blog <https://github.com/conda-forge/blog>`__

-  `The Diátaxis framework <https://diataxis.fr/>`__
-  `Google's Technical Writing docs <https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/overview>`__
-  Accessibility guidelines for content:

   -  `gov.uk resources
      <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/inclusive-communication/accessible-communication-formats>`__
   -  `Microsoft's guidelines
      <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/accessibility/accessibility-guidelines-requirements>`__
   -  `Easy read guidance
      <https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20130812104657/http://odi.dwp.gov.uk/docs/iod/easy-read-guidance.pdf>`__
   -  `digital.gov resources <https://accessibility.digital.gov/content-design/getting-started/>`__

-  `Documentation as a way to build community
   <https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2020/03/documentation-as-a-way-to-build-community>`__
-  `NEP (Numpy Enhancement Proposal) 44
   <https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0044-restructuring-numpy-docs.html>`__: Restructuring Numpy docs
-  `Daniele Procida: How documentation works, and how to make it work for your project
   <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azf6yzuJt54>`__ (PyCon 2017)
