:orphan:

GSoC 2023 project ideas for conda-forge
=======================================

.. Inspired by the excellent Zarr Project Ideas document at
   https://github.com/zarr-developers/gsoc/blob/main/2022/ideas-list.md

Thanks for your interest in applying for Google Summer of Code with conda-forge. We welcome
applications from individuals from all backgrounds, identities and abilities and encourage
applications individuals from under-represented groups in tech.

About conda-forge
-----------------

`conda-forge <https://conda-forge.org/>`__ is a community effort and a `GitHub organization
<https://github.com/conda-forge>`__ which contains repositories of conda recipes and thus provides
conda packages for a wide range of software. The built distributions are uploaded to
anaconda.org/conda-forge and can be installed with conda.

2023 marks the 8th anniversary of the conda-forge organization. Over these 8 years it has served
more than 1.2M package artifacts, which account for 10B downloads via anaconda.org. None of this
would be possible without the work of more than 4.6K volunteers!

How does conda-forge work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

conda-forge is built for and around the conda packaging ecosystem. A conda recipe contains the
dependency metadata and instructions to build and package a particular project, usually from
source.

New recipes are first submitted to the ``conda-forge/staged-recipes`` repository via a pull request
(PR). Once this is reviewed and approved, the recipe is merged and granted its own repository,
called *feedstock*. A feedstock is a standard GitHub repository within the conda-forge
organization, containing the user-provided ``recipe/`` and the supporting configuration and tooling
required for the builds.

For each PR merged in a feedstock, a series of artifacts is built for the package (changes such as
releasing a new version or adding a new dependency require rebuilding the package for
ecosystem-wide compatibility). All contributions to a feedstock happen through PRs.

How is conda-forge organized?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The conda-forge organization is led by the *core* team. The core team also receives support from
many volunteers, like staged-recipes reviewers or the domain-specific ``help-*`` teams. Each
feedstock is mainly maintained by its team of collaborators named after it. Feedstock teams are
fluid by design: anyone can step down at any moment and join and take over as long as the feedstock
team accepts the PR-driven application.

What's the contribution process?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

conda-forge is an open-source project; it is built in the open for traceability and transparency.
Continuous integration (CI) logs are publicly available, and everyone is welcome to contribute. We
follow a strict fork-based Github-flow workflow: the feedstock branches will build *and upload* the
artifacts to the validation server. For this reason, pull requests must always be opened from
personal forks. This workflow is also followed in conda-forge repositories that are not responsible
for producing packages.

Project Idea 1 - Modernization of the conda-forge.org website
-------------------------------------------------------------

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

conda-forge.org was created almost 8 years ago (when the whole conda-forge project was started).
After 8 years, the site has become outdated. For example, it has not been optimized for mobile use.
Moreover, it is not WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) conformant, which makes it
inaccessible to many users, especially those with disabilities or those that rely on assistive
technology to interact with the web.

This project aims to deliver a new website for conda-forge.org that meets WCAG accessibility
standards and improves performance while providing an excellent contributor experience.

Current state
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The current Sphinx-based conda-forge.org website is mainly built from the `conda-forge.github.io
<https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io>`__ repository and extended by `status
<https://github.com/conda-forge/status>`__ - which generates a basic conda-forge status dashboard -
and a conda-forge `blog <https://github.com/conda-forge/blog>`__.

A Docusaurus-based prototype website is available at `cf-infra-docs.netlify.app
<https://cf-infra-docs.netlify.app/>`__, where new documentation is being written for the
conda-forge infrastructure. We will use this site as the playground for the website modernization.

Tasks
~~~~~

-  Figma mockups for a new frontpage for desktop and mobile
-  Design a conda-forge style guide for other web-based developments
-  Work towards WCAG conformance during the design phase and include accessibility annotations for
   the development phase
-  Present proposals to the community and incorporate feedback

Extended tasks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Implement the new frontpage in Docusaurus (with the corresponding React components)
-  Add CI pipelines for automated performance and accessibility tests to prevent regressions in
   further work

Expected outcomes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  A conda-forge style guide for its new online presence.
-  The redesigned landing page passes the SpeedPage and WAVE automated tests.
-  The new implementation provides an intuitive and usable user experience.
-  A prototype conda-forge.org frontpage redesign is live in cf-infra-docs.

Details
~~~~~~~

-  **Prerequisites**:

   -  Previous experience with prototyping or mock-up tools such as Figma
   -  Experience creating design specs that define the user need, underlying hypotheses, and UX
      flow
   -  Some knowledge of accessibility standards
   -  Bonus points for previous experience in designing accessible experiences

-  **Nice to have, but not required**:

   -  React and npm
   -  Comfortable with Git & Github PR-driven workflows
   -  Familiar with Docusaurus

-  **Project length**: 350 hours
-  **Priority**: Low
-  **Complexity**: Medium
-  **Potential mentor(s)**: @jaimergp

References
~~~~~~~~~~

-  https://conda-forge.org

   -  https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io
   -  https://github.com/conda-forge/status
   -  https://github.com/conda-forge/blog

-  https://accessibility.digital.gov/
-  https://design-system.service.gov.uk/
-  `PageSpeed results for conda-forge.org
   <https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fconda-forge.org%2F>`__
-  `WAVE (accessibility) results for conda-forge.org
   <https://wave.webaim.org/report#/conda-forge.org>`__
-  `Docusaurus showcase <https://docusaurus.io/showcase>`__
-  `Styling and Layout - Docusaurus documentation <https://docusaurus.io/docs/styling-layout>`__
