# 2017-04-26: General Discussion

Time: 17:00 (UTC)

Hangout link: [](https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie)[https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie](https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie)

**Attendees**

Jonathan Helmus, Eric Dill,  Filipe, Peter Williams, John Kirkham, [Matt Craig](https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yBvjHx0Ad3Y), [Michael Sarahan](https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yHQTJXZ4gyS)

**Standing Items**

**Notes**

*   conda-build-all conda 4.3 - [SciTools/conda build all#83](https://github.com/SciTools/conda-build-all/pull/83)
*   CFEP manual build and upload - [conda forge/conda forge enhancement proposals#5](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5)

**Agenda**

*   Defaults   channel libpng and jpeg updates: scheduled for 1Q 2017.  Continuum   requests closer collaboration on future api/abi incompatible updates to   core libraries.

*   One pinning scheme for both defaults and conda-forge?
*   That would be ideal.  Hopefully we can head that way.
*   We missed the opportunity to coordinate libpng, I pinned to 1.6.28 and 1-day after I found out that defaults pinned to 1.6.27.
*   We  should coordinate to move to icu 58.* together. I already pinned in the  script (which is broken BTW), but I will start sending PRs to use that  ICU soon.

*   Drop   Python 3.4. Now that conda-forge have Qt 4+jpeg9* on Windows the  Python  3.5+Windows users can migrate from Python 3.4 to 3.5.

*   Do MinGW compile things that play well with Python 3.5/MSVC 2015 yet? AFAICT this is still an [issue](http://bugs.python.org/issue4709).
*   Have a VM I'm willing to use to do this. Details [here](https://github.com/boxcutter/macos).

*   Re-rendering channel improvements. ( [conda forge/conda smithy#401](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/401) )
*   GSoC [](https://github.com/numfocus/gsoc)[https://github.com/numfocus/gsoc](https://github.com/numfocus/gsoc)
*   Build Qt 5 based on [](https://anaconda.org/qttesting/qt/files)[https://anaconda.org/qttesting/qt/files](https://anaconda.org/qttesting/qt/files) and manually upload it
*   Document when should we use `osx_is_app: True`

*   should use this whenever a GUI is involved. This uses `pythonw` on osx instead of `python`

*   Status of Python 3.6 and Numpy 1.12 package: Discuss the `MNT: Re-render the feedstock [ci skip]` issue for Linux Python 3.6 packages.
*   Take advantage of conda 4.3 new feature "Generic- and Python-Type Noarch/Universal Packages." [](https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/announcing-general-availability-conda-4-3)[https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/announcing-general-availability-conda-4-3](https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/announcing-general-availability-conda-4-3)

*   Example of how this could be done using the imagesize package: [conda forge/imagesize feedstock#3](https://github.com/conda-forge/imagesize-feedstock/pull/3)

*   Break linter out of `conda-smithy` into a new package (e.g. `conda-lint`). [conda forge/conda smithy#386](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/386)

*   Perl silliness. Too many Perls showing up after re-rendering. How to fix? [conda forge/conda smithy#415](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/415)

*   Use Travis-CI auto-cancel feature

*   Discuss how to enable R builds. We do not have win32 builds of r-base and no way to deal with the CONDA_R=<version> yet. 

*   When  building R packages, there is often a timeout when downloading the  sources from CRAN. Maybe the connect and read timeout in conda-build can  be made configurable?

*   Manual upload of VTK due to CI limitation.

*   Discuss R migration effort
*   Discuss staged-recipes/Travis CI failures.
*   Discuss revamping team update as a webservice ( [conda forge/conda forge webservices#63](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-webservices/issues/63) )

*   Note the current team update has been failing for months and only completes a little more than half the teams.

*   Adding other specialized teams.

*   consider  switching to dropbox paper (as the bar at the top of hackpad suggests).  I know that jupyter has switched to dropbox paper for their dev  meetings. (Apparently this is no longer optional) (admin of the  conda-forge group on hackpad can "migrate" these hackpads to paper: [](https://www.dropbox.com/help/9156#import))[https://www.dropbox.com/help/9156#import](https://www.dropbox.com/help/9156#import))

*   Guidance  for renaming conda packages and its impact on the feedstock. tl;dr do  you (a) submit a new recipe to staged recipes and deprecate the old one  or (b) update the feedstock in-place

*   Discuss updated pinning handling ( [conda forge/staged recipes#2267](https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/2267) ) ( [conda forge/conda smithy#482](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/482) ).

*   Suggestion: Match name the pinning file will have in conda build 3.

*   Dropping Obvious-CI from the docker image ( [conda forge/docker images#47](https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/47) ).
*   X11 CFEP

*   Omnia moving to conda-forge