# 2019-04-03 conda-forge meeting
**Pinned Items**

- Zoom instructions: [+How to connect to zoom](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/How-to-connect-to-zoom-odl94oveHyiRv6UqTtZE5) 
----------

**New items**

- Conda-forge on Open Source Directions
- Should we send something for the SciPy Tools plenary? https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdyemkK_NV1k6kp9ZakHm566nYUxrfCv7lO_MlNXKEoUv2I8w/viewform
    - Not done, CJ following up on what we need to do
- SciPy plans and how to spend ESIP/NumFOCUS sprint grant money.
- Elections/Governance (let’s put an election for those two.)
    - Staged
        - Progress?
        - mjscosta
            - “I can review C++ and Python, and Python + extensions recipes.”
        - xhochy
        - etadeu
    - Core
        - pkgw
    - Split help teams from staged-recipes permissions?
        - Go forward with splitting help teams from staged
    - Staged team in Governance doc
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/738
    - Add formal budget team to Governance doc
- Should we “dogfood”  `strict`, which may be default in the next conda, in our CIs? The only known issue is `numpy` /`scipy`  on Windows because of BLAS requirements `1openblas`  (`numpy`)vs `mkl` (`scipy`). We need to either make `mkl` a first class citizen on Windows or have a `scipy` build with `openblas`.
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-ci-setup-feedstock/pull/50
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/8009
    - Perform switch after blas migration is more finished
- Azure status
    - Need to fix windows (vc9 and cmake)
    - Credentials issues (need pipelines account to access Azure, will move to GH auth soon)
    - How to handle bespoke build agents (for builds taking longer than 6 hours (qt, compilers, etc.))
    - How to restart an Azure job?
- NVIDIA
    - Louder communication path for large ecosystem shifts (compiler migrations)
        - Banner on AnacondaCloud, status updates on channel
        - Print something while using `conda install`
        - More frequent updates
    - AnacondaCloud can fall over (mirroring conda)
    - Try to track down hard linked drivers in GPU packages.
- Migrations
    - Blas
        - Underway
    - Libprotobuf
        - Underway
    - gfortran
        - Need to build a migrator for new osx gfortran
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/174 maybe?
    - Power and Arm
        - Ongoing https://conda-forge.org/status/
        - More leafs to target?
    - Openssl
        - Underway
    - Readline
        - ABI change
        - Needs migrator
        - May want to wait
    - @Christopher W : Add link to migration docs for conda-forge.github.io
- Conda-Forge miniconda (Should we mark this as resolved and proceed with conda-pack?)
    - Sophia did some benchmarks and showed that using a conda-pack’d archive reduced CI setup time down to about 2 seconds instead of the 40 seconds it takes to install miniconda and switch out all the packages for the conda-forge ones: https://gitter.im/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io?at=5c79a37dd2d62067b72a849d
    - Mike’s point was who owns the support for a conda-forge miniconda distro? https://gitter.im/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io?at=5c7992a9e1446a6ebe6871d2
- Nvidia relationship
    - Anaconda met with Rapids (NVIDIA) team
    - Reach out to NVIDIA to attend meetings
    - Add NVIDIA person to core?
    - Add to governance discussing donations and governance.
    - More followup with NVIDIA needed
    - Building GPU packages using conda-forge packages, upload to their own channel after building with cudatoolkit on their own Jenkins system.
    - Maybe form a working group?
- Perl ecosystem?
    - move forward with plan to incorporate perl into CF
        - Do we have an issue or something for this?

