# 2020-11-11 conda-forge core meeting


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/r5eeo5cGQ7iHG1IgpB6axQ)

## Attendees

- Matthew R Becker
- Cheng H Lee
- Keith Kraus
- Filipe Fernandes
- Jaime Rodriguez-Guerra

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call

* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [x] open votes
    * Keith Kraus for Core!

* [x] (MRB/ED/SC) Roadmap / Funding
    * goal is to spend 15 minutes each core meeting for ~3-4 meetings to discuss this
        * Save last 15 minutes for this.
    * https://hackmd.io/0zGSUS71SbOdBsdLtDmGjg
    * notes will get added to hackmd above
    * MRB will collate into a document of sorts
    * some resources
        1. Some numbers:
            * https://github.com/conda-forge/by-the-numbers/blob/master/conda-forge-timelines.ipynb
            * conda-forge has added about 3k feedstocks per year in 2019 and will in 2020
            * the growth in the amount of data we store appears to be accelerating
        2. risk measurements
            * CJ deserves all of the credit for this idea
            * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ADNNauwVZWUsEdlh5aEg0OLjyDWvCX7PLoo-K34EqcM/edit#gid=0
    * going to skip today due to my own constraints
    * TODO:
        * Everyone take a look at the pypa roadmap:
        * fill out the risk measurement spread sheet:
          https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements/blob/master/FUNDABLES.md

#### From previous meeting(s)
* [ ] (MB) CentOS 6 end of maintenance support
    * 2020-11-30
      - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centos#End-of-support_schedule
      - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux#Product_life_cycle
    * Some projects start to use defines from kernels newer than cos6's
      - https://github.com/conda-forge/util-linux-feedstock/pull/7/files#diff-d7075654874cb08007a21aaab3ecd4b3453a9087e7505d034d548b8938b599bcR4-R6
    * (UK) `nodejs` also seems to have dropped cos6: https://github.com/conda-forge/nodejs-feedstock/pull/154
    * (CHL) "defaults" will be dropping CentOS 6 around Jan 2021.


### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (JRG) jaime.rogue@gmail.com is interested in helping out with a "conda-forge paper" for JOSS
    * Would be useful for scientists to get citations
    * Two approaches
        * Everyone on core is an author
        * Only people that need
    * Generating something to cite
        * Zenodo? Rolling Zenodo DOIs don't accumulate citations (we need to confirm that.)
        * JRG: As per the [FAQ](https://help.zenodo.org/) _How does DOI versioning work?_, they provide two types of DOIs: version-specific and project-specific. Each project gets at least two: a general one, and then one more for the current version. They are separate DOIs (so different citation "wallets"), _but_ we could ask people to cite the project DOI, and the version specific ones will contain the increasingly growing list of contributors (maybe splitted by time?). For example:
            * Project DOI -> points to https://conda-forge.org/.
                * Author is "The Conda Forge Community".
                * Content of the release: the documentation at that point, or a statement of the mission.
            * Versions: one per year (or other period of time).
                * Each release includes authors that contributed at least one package to conda-forge (new feedstock, new merged PR?). Sorted by amount of contributions. Opt-in via PR label (staged-recipes + PR).
                * Content: whatever is easier to automate. Possibly a list of the newly feedstocks, merged PRs in that timeframe.
        * JRG (cont.): Authors that want credit in their CV can include the Project DOI _and_ the versions that include their contributions, if needed.
    * How do we slice and dice credit? Write a paper and publish it for that specific tool?
    * TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers
    * MRB: I think the community itself should be the sole author.

* [X] CZI proposal results and next steps
    * We got a boilerplate no "good proposal but we got too many" from CZI.
* [x] (CHL) to-dos for osx-arm64 rollout
    * Action item for Anaconda: fix CDN to push osx-arm64 packages
    * Anaconda may add signing to conda-build at some point in expectation that apple will require real certs
      and not simply an ad-hoc signature

### Pushed to next meeting

* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
* [ ] (CJ) We seem to have some artifacts that have more files than expected
    * 4 pkgs ship requests (other than requests itself) see below
    * What should we do about these?
        * Old pkgs
        * Newer/latest pkgs
```
'apache-libcloud-2.4.0-py27_1000',
'apache-libcloud-2.4.0-py36_1000',
'apache-libcloud-2.4.0-py37_1000',
'apache-libcloud-2.4.0-py_1000',
'autovizwidget-0.12.6-py_1000',
'dbxfs-1.0.38-py_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.0-py36h9f0ad1d_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.0-py37hc8dfbb8_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.0-py38h32f6830_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.1-py36h9f0ad1d_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.1-py37hc8dfbb8_0',
'google-api-core-1.20.1-py38h32f6830_0',
'google-cloud-bigquery-storage-core-2.0.0-pyh9f0ad1d_1',
'google-cloud-bigquery-storage-core-2.0.1-pyh9f0ad1d_0'
```





### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

* [cfep-20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/39)


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2020-11-03
* [x] (MRB) proposed policy on when core pushes to the feedstocks they don't maintain
        * [x] (MRB) put in docs PR
        * [ ] (MRB) make PR on bot to mention the policy
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.
*
### Last meeting
2020-10-28

### 2 meetings ago
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-30

2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB)
    * do libgfortran name change
    * add target platform to hashes
    * do gfortran migration with bot
    * bump pinnings

2020-09-16
* [x] Get a call set up with Jon Mease about the kaleido staged recipes PR
    * Emailed on 2020-09-16
* [x] (FF) Open up a PR on the python feedstock for python 3.9 and see what fails

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB) start pushing images to quay (https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/152)

**OVH**
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we're adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
