# 2020-10-21 conda-forge core meeting 


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/1mI2fg1wS2O9Vho_if6Z6Q)

## Attendees
    * Eric D
    * Matt B
    * Filipe
    * Cheng Lee
    * Isuru
    * Marius
    * Crystal
    * Marcelo
    * Paul I.
    * Marcel B.
    * Connor M.
    * Bill Batey
    * Stephanie
    * John K.
    * Lori B.
    * Wolf
    * CJ

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * Bill - new to Anaconda. On the distribution team with Cheng and Connor.

* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [x] (MRB) open votes
    * Chris Burr for Core
    * Won't use polys again because something totally went sideways. Maybe we'll try again?

#### From previous meeting(s)

* [x] (MRB) github releases and conda-forge-sparta
    * code and data in the regro github org right now
        * if you want access, LMK
        * I am also happy to move the repos to the conda-forge org but they may slow rerendering since they use a fair bit of github actions
    * how it works
        * all packages that are validated and copied to anaconda.org/conda-forge are also 
          sent to a releases repo via a workflow dispatch event in github actions
        * the github actions CI job (regro/releases)
            * downloads the package
            * computes its repodata information
            * uploads the package and its repodata as a github release
            * pushes the repodata shard to another repo with all of the shards
        * another job on a continuous loop (regro/repodata aka the repoworker)
            * downloads the shards
            * figures out which ones are new
            * applies repodata patching to the shards (will also repatch everything if patches have changed)
            * computes the repodata and channel data
            * computes an index of links that point to where one can download the package
            * uploads all of this data as a github release
            * kicks the heroku server to download the new links
        * the herkou server (https://conda-forge-sparta.herokuapp.com/conda-forge-sparta/)
            * gets a request for a package or repodata file at the standard URL for an anaconda server
            * looks up where that package is in the links index
            * issues a 300 to redirect the request to the actual location
        * a final set of cron jobs runs once an hour to sync our repodata shards with anaconda.org (regro/repodata-shards)
            * this job catches any missed releases due to bad CI jobs or manual uploads
                * will update the shards repo and upload to github
            * ensures eventual consistency on ~1-2 hour time scales if things break
    * overall time delay from the initial workflow dispatch to a package being available is 5-10 minutes
        * can go longer if repodata patches are being redone for everything
    * how could this not depend on anaconda **if we needed it**
        * replace cf-staging and anaconda.org w/ quetz
        * limit traffic to those instances to keep the costs down
        * send the vast majority of download requests to our (possibly beefed up) heroku server and thus github
    * I really don't want to maintain this for production, but we could if we had to.
    * For now, we have a system to help index and archive our data in another spot.

* [ ] (MRB / ED / SC) Roadmap / Funding? Discussion in gitter:
    * (SC) What would CF do as a project if it received funding? Maybe having some kind of whitepapers on the conda-forge website would help. Would conda-forge do something very different if some corporation gave 10k, 100k, or 1M to the project via NumFOCUS? 
        * 10k: does it buy enough hosting to do something interesting? 
        * 100k - what does it bring. 
        * A much larger amount: conda-forge may even be able to have funded people directly working on the project.
        * We can almost certainly find a lot useful stuff that would not hurt getting funding for without necessarily having to get consensus on a roadmap. (something i think would not be controversial, like oh we could use some funding to do some nice web development for better visualization of migrations, or stuff) there are probably a lor of things of that nature.
    * If we make a list, Santa may just show up...
    * see the bloomberg note above...
    * wishlist and ideas: https://hackmd.io/0zGSUS71SbOdBsdLtDmGjg
        * (ED) Can we add initials for whomever submitted the idea? would be useful to track that if there are follow-on questions
        * (MRB) Start chatting on this for 15 minutes in the next core meeting

* [x] (MvN) tactical things to do about cython?
    * CPython breaks its apis reguarly enough to force a recythoning of much of the python ecosystem.
    * Should we patch our cython so that when the  `CONDA_BUILD` env var is set, we always recythonize and ignore mtime for files?

* [x] (MvN) noarch: python v2
    * As we increasingly drop compatibility with py27/35/36 should we automatically add python constraints to all `noarch: python` artifacts using repodata pacthing?
        * The idea would be to pick an epoch date (say 2020-10-01) and have the artifacts built after that date get a repodata patch adding a python>=3.6 constraint iff it only had a python constraint.
    
    * Additionally we may as well upate the noarch adding bot action that adds noarch to strip all lines containing py27/34/35 selectors from the recipe.
        * This should allow us to move lots of feedstocks that currently depend on some things only for py27 compat to noarch: python cutting down on the growth rate of artifacts. 
    * to do
        * ( ) [ ] make a hint
        * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
        * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

* [x] (WV) multisheller github.com/wolfv/multisheller

### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (FF) Outreachy, round 2
* [X] (FF) "Feature parity" between feedstock and staged-recipes. For example: CFEP-05 does not contemplate a dev release on staged recipes when there is no stable release to start a feedstock. https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/blob/master/cfep-05.md
    * No need for a conda-forge.yml, one can add a conda config file
    * The broader issue still is not solved, we cannot do cos7
    * staged recipes needs some work!

### Pushed to next meeting

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

* [cfep-20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/39)


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2020-10-21
* [ ] Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

### Last meeting
2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

### 2 meetings ago
2020-09-30

### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB)
    * do libgfortran name change
    * add target platform to hashes
    * do gfortran migration with bot
    * bump pinnings

2020-09-16
* [x] Get a call set up with Jon Mease about the kaleido staged recipes PR
    * Emailed on 2020-09-16
* [x] (FF) Open up a PR on the python feedstock for python 3.9 and see what fails

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB) start pushing images to quay (https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/152)

**OVH**
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we're adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
