[hackmd](https://hackmd.io/P3TxrxupQQa7Cmv2Mqk7Ig)

# 2021-01-27 conda-forge core meeting


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/r5eeo5cGQ7iHG1IgpB6axQ)

## Attendees

- Isuru
- Matthew
- CJ
- Cheng
- Andreas Guzman
- Chris Burr
- Connor Martin
- Crystal Soja
- Fabio Pliger
- Filipe
- John
- Keith
- Markus
- Matti Picus
- Nikolay Petrov
- Stephanie Guo
- Wolf
- Eric Dill

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * intel folks

* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)
    * (CJ) We're all up to date and 2021 P&L not posted yet

* [x] open votes


#### From previous meeting(s)

* [x] (WV) Quick Update on the current state of Quetz / beta.mamba.pm

* [ ] (ED) Any progress on CFEPs? I think we talked about this a few weeks ago but i dont remember the outcome (punted)


### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] ICC compiler wrappers w/ intel folks
    * NP on intel repack:
        * would like to ship more things
        * lots of internal discussion
        * plan to bring more libraries to conda
            * dpcpp
            * dnn stuff
            * compilers
        * how are we going to handle packages and validation?
            * history of repack of intel stuff and why not clone/copy
            * IF:
                * we want to change metadata and change some default settings (swap intel openmp and llvm openmp)
                * use different blas exports in MKL
    * Andres w/ compilers
        * we can start fresh on recipes
        * have internal ones that were working based on ctng
        * intel has "setvar" scripts
        * question is this layout ok?
            * icc is binary repackage
            * activation calls setvars.sh
        * IF: just icc or DPCPP?
            * answer: right now ICC first and then DPCPP
        * IF:
            * need stuff in ctng packages
            * is there a deactivation for setvars.sh?
        * AG:
            * what needs to happen wrt to conda?
        * IF:
            * need env to be the same after we deactivate
        * MRB: can we reuse ctng for icc?
            * IF: we are not doing this - you are WRONG matt!
        * IF: need icc to use our sysroot
        * AG: what about fortran?
            * MRB: do C/C++ for now and then fortran later
        * IF: we'll have two packages
            * icc_impl_{{ target_platform}} : repack binary packages
            * icc_{{ target_platform}}: activation scripts

* [ ] (FF) GSoC 2021 plans
    * Filipe won't be able to manage this one this year. If anyone is willing, take over from Filipe.
* [ ] (FF) Outreachy updates
* [ ] (FF) Meetings times, should we send a new doodle to try to include more people?
    * [ ] go back to fortnightly
    * [ ] send a poll to move to alternate time slot with conda community meeting
* [ ] (FF) Should pypy migrations be on automerge?
    * we were careful with R
    * merging PRs is a burden to people
    * FF thinks it will be fine
    * IF automerge will give access to a lot of our feedstocks
* [ ] (MP) How is the PyPy 3.7 migration going?
    * 3.6: done (1328) in-pr (412) not-solvable   (0) awaiting-parents (423) bot-error  (5)
    * 3.7: done  (738) in-pr (565) not-solvable (112) awaiting-parents (739) bot-error (14)
    * 41 (37%) of the not-solvable are Python 2.7 only
* [ ] (KK) Limiting the number of CUDA versions in our build matrix by default
    * [ ] yes pls


### Pushed to next meeting


### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020
    Solved: Let's defer and keep the "mixed model" we have now.

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.
    Solved: defer in favor of the stale bot for now.

* [cfep-15](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020
    Pending: re-pinged pkgw for a second review.

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

* [cfep-19](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/35) Pinning epochs
    * Stalled since July

* [cfep-20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/39) Package split
    * No updates for ~1 month


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2021-01-27

### Last meeting
2021-01-06

### 2 meetings ago
2020-11-24

### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI
        * [ ] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
