


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text|Open+Sans|Droid+Sans+Mono" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../" src="../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/doctools.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/language_data.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2016-06-24.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2016-08-12.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2016-06-24.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2016-08-12.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2016-07-22: General discussion</p>
<p>Time: 14:00 UTC</p>
<p>Hangout link: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie)[https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie](https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie">https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie)[https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie](https://hangouts.google.com/call/v5olhwzpfzgzpoq5i3wthjpqpie</a>)</p>
<p><strong>Attendees</strong></p>
<p>[John Kirkham](<a class="reference external" href="https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/wv6uvIZX6h0">https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/wv6uvIZX6h0</a>)</p>
<p>Jonathan Helmus</p>
<p>[Matt Craig](<a class="reference external" href="https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yBvjHx0Ad3Y">https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yBvjHx0Ad3Y</a>)</p>
<p>Phil Elson</p>
<p>[Michael Sarahan](<a class="reference external" href="https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yHQTJXZ4gyS">https://conda-forge.hackpad.com/ep/profile/yHQTJXZ4gyS</a>)</p>
<p>Filipe</p>
<p><strong>Standing items</strong></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>How many repos?</p></li>
<li><p>How many contributors?</p></li>
<li><p>New core devs?</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Agenda</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><p>Governance/mechanism for formally proposing and deciding on enhancements.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Motivation:  Without a formal governance model it is difficult for the conda-forge  community to reach final decisions.  There is no designated place to  propose changes in, e.g. compiler infrastructure or whether to run or  not to run a package’s unit tests, so these end up being scattered  across pull requests and issues.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul>
<li><p>Governance models:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>The Python model: BDFL + PEPs</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The Jupyter model: BDFL + Steering Council + JEPs: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jupyter/governance)[https://github.com/jupyter/governance](https://github.com/jupyter/governance">https://github.com/jupyter/governance)[https://github.com/jupyter/governance](https://github.com/jupyter/governance</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>The  astropy model: Coordinating Committee + APEs: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs)[https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs](https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs">https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs)[https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs](https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs</a>) and [](<a class="reference external" href="http://www.astropy.org/about.html)[http://www.astropy.org/about.html](http://www.astropy.org/about.html">http://www.astropy.org/about.html)[http://www.astropy.org/about.html](http://www.astropy.org/about.html</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>IPEP : [](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template)[https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template">https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template)[https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Templatehttps://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEP-0:-IPEP-Template</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>numpy governance: [](<a class="reference external" href="http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html)[http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html">http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html)[http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-dev/dev/governance/governance.html</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>All of these models have a mechanism for enhancement proposals, so how about creating: github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>SciPy sprint: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint)[https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint](https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint">https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint)[https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint](https://trello.com/b/KURmGkly/conda-forge-scipy-sprint</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>conda-forge code of conduct doc: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit)[https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit)[https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10dxX0Zse0Rx1HqsxC73Wfsghmy5m8PP8cHuBIOhWKpc/edit</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>Discuss some guidelines to contact the authors</p></li>
<li><p>Feedstocks philosophy:  Explicit vs implicit / reproducible vs redundant</p></li>
<li><p>OSX - getting back to a usable, coherent, stack</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>libc++ (clang) vs libstdc++ (gcc/g++)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Minimum OSX required for clang (10.8, I think?)</p></li>
<li><p>Actually clang is usable beginning in 10.7. So, this would be viable given your compatibility constraints.</p></li>
<li><p>Also, all the refs I have seen suggest that this will still have C++11 support.</p></li>
<li><p>Compatibility  with defaults (built on 10.7, uses gcc) - where will people break?  I  think only if mixing packages - how do we assure that we have all the  ones we need?</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Improving infrastructure</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Travis CI API issues</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Finish out GitHub API issues</p></li>
<li><p>Better workflows with staged-recipes</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Low level packaging</p></li>
<li><p>Basic community practices when PR-ing to staged-recipes.</p></li>
<li><p>No need to re-discuss this. I am still writing the docs and, if ready, I will send the link tomorrow (or after SciPy ;-)</p></li>
<li><p>NetCDF (&lt;s&gt;also curl/ca-certificates and Perl packages&lt;/s&gt;) - Done?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>curl and ca-certificates are done and available.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Perl is no longer relevant as part of this process</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Notifications (how do we stay on top of them)</p></li>
<li><p>Standardizing installs</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul>
<li><p>Mention [<cite>toolchain</cite>](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/toolchain-feedstock">https://github.com/conda-forge/toolchain-feedstock</a>) .</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Discuss rollout to feedstocks.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>Get feedback on [<cite>python-toolchain</cite>](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/642">https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/642</a>)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>MSYS2</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Available on defaults - was in conda 4.1.7, but that was pulled.  Coming in 4.1.8.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Discussing Ray Donnelly’s work on MSYS2 packages and how we want to use and integrate these into conda-forge.</p></li>
<li><p>Some use cases to consider OpenBLAS, FFTW, build tools, others?</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Binary data</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Do we include it in recipes?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>What kinds do we allow if any (e.g. icons)?</p></li>
<li><p>How do we verify the licensing?</p></li>
<li><p>How do we verify that they are safe?</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>OpenBLAS (on Windows)</p></li>
<li><p>Dev releases: Where do they happen?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul>
<li><p>Do we do them at conda-forge?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Maybe add a label.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>Do we let others do them with a feedstock on their own repo?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>How do we enforce whatever we decide?</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Conda-forge installer</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>We have Python 3.5, and 3.4 now. Would be nice to have 2.7.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Have everything. Though <cite>conda-build</cite> needs some work.</p></li>
<li><p>Repo for installer exists, but many questions remain open. ( [](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil)[https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil)[https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-anvil</a>) )</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Channel mirroring</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul>
<li><p>Can this point be a little bit explained? I thought about this as well and would like to contribute to this point.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Eric Dill has put together a script for copying a package from one channel to another here: [conda forge/conda forge.github.io#134](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/134">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/134</a>)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>I have a really, really crude script that copies all of the packages in one channel to another that I just put at: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555)[https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555](https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555">https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555)[https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555](https://gist.github.com/mwcraig/8473cf840f6d29236d6d8af699404555</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>conda-build-all can copy from one channel to another: <cite>conda build-all –inspect-channels conda-forge –upload-channels astropy some_packge_recipe</cite> will copy the <cite>some_package</cite>  from the channel conda-forge to  astropy if it can, or build it if it  doesn’t exist on conda-forge. Discussion  about what the desired  behavior should be has started at: [SciTools/conda build all#46](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/SciTools/conda-build-all/issues/46">https://github.com/SciTools/conda-build-all/issues/46</a>)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>Feedstock history</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Is it sacred?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul>
<li><p>Do we rebase/force push?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>If so, under what conditions?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul>
<li><p>How do we avoid multiple people doing this simultaneously?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>I don’t think you can.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>IMHO,  if it’s just one author in staged recipes, sure.  If feedstock, no  force push - only to PRs to feedstock.  If people don’t mind merge PRs,  it sure is a lot simpler to not rebase.  I have messed up rebasing a few  times recently… =(</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Docker hosting solution</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Docker Hub builds were broken for a week and a half.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Have switched to quay.io currently.</p></li>
<li><p>Mirroring quay.io image on Docker Hub.</p></li>
<li><p>Thoughts about quay.io? Thoughts about hosting in general?</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Continuum metadata request: can we add these to linter?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>example metadata: [](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta.yaml#L36-L44)[https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta">https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta.yaml#L36-L44)[https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta</a>.yaml#L36-L44](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta.yaml#L36-L44">https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-recipes/blob/master/anaconda-build/meta.yaml#L36-L44</a>)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Also, distinguish summary (limit of 77 or 80 chars) from description (unlimited)</p></li>
<li><p>Anaconda  verify: would be nice to meet in the middle, rather than diverge.   conda-build may integrate anaconda-verify, would be nice if conda-forge  added metadata here.</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Google    hangouts has a max capacity of 10. Is it worth considering other    methods of communication so everyone who wants to participate can?</p></li>
<li><p>Maybe this ( [](<a class="reference external" href="http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/)[http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/](http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/">http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/)[http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/](http://www.freeconferencecalling.com/</a>) ) is an option.</p></li>
<li><p>Bluejeans</p></li>
<li><p>Continuum has webex.  Past experience is that some Linux platforms had trouble connecting</p></li>
<li><p>Drop numpy 1.10 and reduce our build matrix. (Numba now works with numpy 1.11.)</p></li>
<li><p>This comment from the PR for graphviz is the best summary I’ve seen: [conda forge/staged recipes#568](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/568">https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/568</a>)#issuecomment-225315370</p></li>
<li><p>Thanks for pointing this out. The described solution looks reasonable and is preferable to prefixing package names. Great!</p></li>
<li><p>What is the benefit?</p></li>
<li><p>Will   we distinguish between libs and standalone tools, similar to Debian? I   would strongly suggest to do this, because it is (1) established and  (2)  more accessible for the user (if he wants to use a library, he  knows  the language. If he wants to use a standalone, he doesn’t care).[ ( ](<a class="reference external" href="https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names)[](https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages">https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names)[](https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages</a>.html#s-package_names))[<a class="reference external" href="https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names)](https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages">https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names)](https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages</a>.html#s-package_names)[ ](<a class="reference external" href="https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names">https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/ch-module_packages.html#s-package_names</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>Will   there be an orchestrated move? If not, how do we deal with   inconsistencies and potential conflicts (installing both python-h5py  and  h5py).</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>we will probably go with meta-packages for conflicting packages</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>Signing packages</p></li>
<li><p>Should be easy to do. ( [](<a class="reference external" href="http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html)[http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html](http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html">http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html)[http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html](http://conda.pydata.org/docs/signed-packages.html</a>) )</p></li>
<li><p>There has been some interest previously.</p></li>
<li><p>HTTPError: 503 Server Error: Service Unavailable: Back-end server is at capacity for url…</p></li>
<li><p>Seems we are regularly running into this issue under normal usage conditions.</p></li>
<li><p>Had discussed previously caching packages on AppVeyor and trying to reuse those to start.</p></li>
<li><p>Maybe we need to consider caching on all CIs.</p></li>
<li><p>Building our own Miniconda-like self-extracting scripts with packages via [<cite>constructor</cite>](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda/constructor">https://github.com/conda/constructor</a>).</p></li>
<li><p>There  have been improvements on Continuum’s side that should help this.  In  short, repodata (the package index for a given channel) was being  generated for each anaconda.org query.  This was unnecessarily high  cost, and some caching schemes have been implemented.</p></li>
<li><p>Handling removal of unpinned/improperly pinned packages.</p></li>
<li><p>Has been done manually thus far.</p></li>
<li><p>This doesn’t scale well though.</p></li>
<li><p>Should we (semi) automate removal?</p></li>
<li><p>Should we hot-fix broken packages? ( [conda forge/conda forge.github.io#170](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/170">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/170</a>) )</p></li>
<li><p>Travis CI API unreliability</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Notes:</strong>
&lt;ul&gt;&lt;li&gt;873 repositories, 171 people&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Discussion of adding new core-devs and onboarding new contributors&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Governance/Enhancements proposals</p>
<ul>
<li><p>[](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals)[https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals">https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals)[https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPEPs:-IPython-Enhancement-Proposals</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>Want place to move longer technical discussions which will eventually move to decision</p></li>
<li><p>Use cases for enhancements proposals from the past</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>compiler decisions (one per OS)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>CentOS 5 vs 6</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Enhancements vs how decisions are made</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>core group which votes on the issue?  Others from the community?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>proposal should provide evidence to help others understand the issue</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Enhancement proposals get merged regularly</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>“pending” status on issue where no decision has been made</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>No BDFL, committee instead (astropy has coordinating committee, numpy has a steering council)</p></li>
<li><p>Enhancement proposal proposal Pull Request – Jonathan</p></li>
<li><p>Iterate for numpy like governance</p></li>
</ul>
<p>&lt;/ul class=”task”&gt;</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Blog post on conda-forge sprint – Filipe</p></li>
<li><p>code of conduct</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Filipe has draft, please review</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>How do we handle those who misbehave (specified in document)</p></li>
<li><p>Submit as enhancement proposal, review after ~1 week submit</p></li>
<li><p>committee which will sit on code-of-conduct panel to act as nanny (perhaps some external)</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>contacting authors – ping 4/5 active contributors to inform and ask if they want to contribute</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>do not add people to list of maintainers without permissions, let them add themselves in a pull request</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>add common snippets to docs so they are easier to find and used by others</p></li>
<li><p>John will add a generic comment to guidelines for contacting contributors via PR.</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Lots of mention and excitement of conda-forge at SciPy</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Time-series on big packages mentioned at SciPy?</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Some questions on Nathan’s whl talk</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Split gdal into libgdal and gdal like default has done, seem to have fixed issue</p></li>
<li><p>Next meeting 3 weeks from today, Aug 12th</p></li>
</ul>


          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../orga/00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="00_intro.html">Core team meeting minutes</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2016-08-12.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2016-06-24.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../_sources/minutes/2016-07-22.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2016-06-24.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2016-08-12.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.0.2.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>