


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text|Open+Sans|Droid+Sans+Mono" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../" src="../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/doctools.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/language_data.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2019-10-30.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-01-08.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-10-30.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-01-08.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2019-11-12 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<hr class="docutils" />
<p>## Attendees</p>
<p>## Agenda</p>
<p>### Your agenda items
* Qt update strategies. Marius said he was going to talk with Microsoft at the Numfocus summit / Pydata NYC. We agreed that we’d get updates from Marius at this dev meeting.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Context: We should be building Qt more regularly. How do we achieve this? Provisioning Windows Azure VMs seems like the best path forward.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>We’d need to make an Azure org (or whatever their term is) and then distribute credentials</p></li>
<li><p>We should consider talking to Microsoft about help doing this on Azure.</p></li>
<li><p>Marius will run point on these conversations this week at NumFocus Summit and PyData.</p></li>
<li><p>Get updates from Marius at next dev meeting.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(John/Eric) Aligning on GPU packages between CF and defaults</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>(Eric) Currently working internally and then with Josh to align on funding half time developer on distribution team for the rapids GPU needs.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Suggestion to changing linter to error when license is missing, can still merge  with a failure.</p></li>
<li><p>Can include license file which mentions that license is unclear.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/1102#issuecomment-553503902">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/1102#issuecomment-553503902</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Advertise AMD GPU support.</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>AMD GPU runtime is in conda-forge now. Only need a recent Linux kernel in the user machine (And a supported AMD GPU of course)</p></li>
<li><p>write a note to NumFOCUS newsletter</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl>
<dt>Should conda-forge be ping-ing maintainers for projects who’s packages are being added to staged recipes?</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>eg. torchvision issue</p></li>
<li><p>Find the right wording to ping people without “bothering” them too much.</p></li>
<li><p>Invite to feedstock rather than in staged-recipes</p></li>
<li><p>What if maintainer says no, or asks to take the package down?</p></li>
</ul>
<p>This is an email I got when one of my (Jonathan’s) packages was added to Fedora.
The author might have contacts me only about the issues.</p>
<p>Greetings from a fellow NMR spectroscopist. In my role as a Fedora
packager, I have built nmrglue for Fedora and Centos (or RHEL,
Scientific linux, etc,). Users of these distributions can now install
nmrglue using their respective package management tools.</p>
<p>I am writing to you to bring up two “issues”.
…</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Getting more contributors to conda-forge:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Should we do outchreachy with part of our funds? (GSoC but with our own funds. Higher contributor “conversion” rate than GSoC.)</p></li>
<li><p>Send stickers/t-shirts to reviewers on staged-recipes.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Vote for Staged reciepes reminder!</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Python 3.8 migration</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+archived%3Afalse+org%3Aconda-forge+-review%3Achanges_requested+-repo%3Aconda-forge%2Fstaged-recipes+author%3Aregro-cf-autotick-bot+Rebuild+python38+">https://github.com/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+archived%3Afalse+org%3Aconda-forge+-review%3Achanges_requested+-repo%3Aconda-forge%2Fstaged-recipes+author%3Aregro-cf-autotick-bot+Rebuild+python38+</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Bot underwent some refactoring, causing outages, outages have been fixed</p></li>
<li><p>Bot now supports bumping and not bumping build numbers</p></li>
<li><p>We’ve started pushing out on the backlog of pins (arrow-cpp, protobuf, occt)</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools">https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools</a></dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools/blob/master/conda_recipe_tools/find_version.py#L74-L102">https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools/blob/master/conda_recipe_tools/find_version.py#L74-L102</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### POWER</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Have access to a ppc64le machine for conda-forge through OSU OSL.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>conda-forge is a supported FOSS project. (<a class="reference external" href="https://osuosl.org/services/powerdev/current-projects/">https://osuosl.org/services/powerdev/current-projects/</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>If anybody needs access send your public SSH-key to Isuru</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>conda-forge is now self-hosting. Drop defaults?</p></li>
</ul>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>### CI infrastructure</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade</p>
<p>### CFEP updates
How do we start getting traction on these?</p>
<p>#### [cfep-03](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5</a>) Manual upload of builds</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>#### [cfep-04](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7</a>) X11 and CDT policy</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>proposal is not long being worked on</p></li>
<li><p>could be solved by virtual packages</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>#### [cfep-05](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3</a>) dev/rc builds</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>2 Nays, needs voting</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>#### [cfep-06](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9</a>) Staged-recipes review lifecycle</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Is this necessary now that pinging staged-recipes works</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>#### cfep-08 Too Big To Fail</p>
<p>#### [cfep-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained</p>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### Last meeting
* [ ] (Eric) regarding cfep-05, We should implement this in whatever way is as simple as possible for the conda-forge tooling ecosystem. If there is enough of sentiment that people want something more sophisticated, PRs welcome. Make this comment on cfep05</p>
<p>### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] (Filipe) CFEP-03: Review, fix any text and merge it in.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Minor updates that are needed. This will likely get done in December.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (CJ) CFEP-08: Merge in with deferred status</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will check in next meeting.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### 3 meetings ago</p>
<p>### 4 meetings ago</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Email out to see if we can get more engagement on regular dev meetings.</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (Sophia) Set up meeting to talk about Condafile stuff.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will punt on this until she’s working on this actively again</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (Filipe) Ping Bjorn to try and get Debian community more involved with conda-forge</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Going to drop this from our tracker</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
</ul>


          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../orga/00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="00_intro.html">Core team meeting minutes</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-01-08.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2019-10-30.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../_sources/minutes/2019-11-12.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-10-30.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-01-08.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.0.1.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>