


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text|Open+Sans|Droid+Sans+Mono" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../" src="../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/doctools.js"></script>
    <script src="../_static/language_data.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2019-09-18.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2019-10-16.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-09-18.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-10-16.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2019-10-02 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Eric</p></li>
<li><p>John K.</p></li>
<li><p>Sophia C.</p></li>
<li><p>Jonathan H.</p></li>
<li><p>Filipe</p></li>
<li><p>Marius</p></li>
<li><p>Lori</p></li>
<li><p>Scopatz</p></li>
<li><p>CJ</p></li>
<li><p>Mike S.</p></li>
<li><p>Ralf G.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>## Agenda
Pre-arranged stuff to talk about.
Email core team on Monday of the week of the dev meeting to ask for things to talk about.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(CJ) [Pytorch/torchvision discussion](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/torchvision-feedstock/issues/2">https://github.com/conda-forge/torchvision-feedstock/issues/2</a>) ([tweet](<a class="reference external" href="https://twitter.com/jeremyphoward/status/1178351261608861701">https://twitter.com/jeremyphoward/status/1178351261608861701</a>))</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>How do we get greater maitainer participation?</p></li>
<li><p>External users find it difficult to get involved</p></li>
<li><p>Standards centos6/7</p></li>
<li><p>Community ownership model improvements</p></li>
<li><p>Have a follow-on conversation with PyTorch maintainers, conda-forge and Anaconda?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(Filipe) NumFOCUS grants and more transperancy/communication with expenses</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Write up plan that we discussed on the call and make it public</p></li>
<li><p>Create finances subteam to approve disbursement of funds</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Numfocus workflow is:</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>someone submits things through rocket</p></li>
<li><p>They update spreadsheet</p></li>
<li><p>Someone from conda-forge core needs to approve the new spend.</p></li>
<li><p>Set up notifications for your user so that approvers are aware of when changes are made.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(Filipe) CZI proposal (deadline December 2019)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>link to bioconda issue</p></li>
<li><p>follow up with Bjorn</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://gitter.im/bioconda/core-x-conda-forge">https://gitter.im/bioconda/core-x-conda-forge</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(CJ) [CFEP-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) for assigning standings to feedstocks</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Comment in PR that only 3 Version PRs will be issued by bot</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>What are we supposed to do with conda packages for feedstocks that are no longer being actively maintained</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Epoch out packages archived feedstocks?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Package based messaging?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>one user perspective: would prefer correct and/or up-to-date versus “works for the thing i did one year ago”</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(CJ) Testing story, encourage people to add full test suites?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Mixed responce, table for later</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(John) Update on GPU packaging</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Made docker images, based on NVIDIA CUDA images</p></li>
<li><p>Built UCX</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>(CJ) NumFOCUS sprint form</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>(CJ) Python 3.8 migration is [ready](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/279">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/279</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>(CJ) migration graphs are plotted (see [arch plot](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/blob/master/status/archrebuild.svg">https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/blob/master/status/archrebuild.svg</a>))</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(CJ) Heroku [running out of memory](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/status/issues/60">https://github.com/conda-forge/status/issues/60</a>)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Fix the rerender use lower RAM</p></li>
<li><p>Pay for larger RAM</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>### CI infrastructure
* (CJ) Problems with Appveyor downgrade to free?
* (Marius, Isuru) Azure migration update?
* Do we want to roll out <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1131">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1131</a> to all feedstocks?</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade
* (Isuru) Update to clang 8.0.1 and gfortran 7.3.0 on OSX</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>No rebuild necessary. (Rebuild for gfortran 7.3.0 is already done. We build with 7.3.0 and 4.8.5)</p></li>
<li><p>This should be pain free except for some packages that do -Wall -Werror.</p></li>
<li><p>We get better compilers.</p></li>
<li><p>We don’t have to rely on defaults as we build these in conda-forge CI.</p></li>
<li><p>We get a linker that supports .tbds .
(new linker might work with older compiler, but not sure about packages compiled with -flto)</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li></li>
</ul>
<p>### CFEP updates
How do we start getting traction on these?</p>
<p>#### cfep-03</p>
<p>#### cfep-04</p>
<p>#### cfep-05</p>
<p>#### cfep-06</p>
<p>#### cfep-08</p>
<p>#### cfep-10</p>
<p>### Your agenda items</p>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Funding round?</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### jeremy howard’s criticisms and discussion
* It’s still difficult to get involved
* Ralf, as a numpy / scipy maintainer, still struggles to understand how to get involved.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>External project maintainers plus maintainers of recipe – so-and-so already owns it how can i start contributing to the package.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>the average user doesn’t want to think about glibc. it’s an implementation detail that the average packager doesn’t want to think about. Most people are happy to follow these guidelines</p></li>
</ul>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### Last meeting</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Email out to see if we can get more engagement on regular dev meetings.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Sophia) Set up meeting to talk about Condafile stuff.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (CJ) write blog post on bot work and compiler migration</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Filipe) Ping Bjorn to try and get Debian community more involved with conda-forge</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] (Filipe) Progress on setting up a self-hosted blog</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Medium seems to be generally downvoted</p></li>
<li><p>Host your own blog seems to be generally positive</p></li>
<li><p>Can we mimic what Dask does for their dev blog? <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/dask/dask-blog">https://github.com/dask/dask-blog</a></p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] (Needs Owner) Searching on our website is a little difficult</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Filipe, Anthony) Improve docs on releasing conda-smithy. Currently says “use rever”. Would be good to fill out more info there for those of us that are unfamiliar with rever.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### 3 meetings ago
y</p>
<p>## New Action items
Copy new action items to next meetings agenda so we can check in.
Make sure each action item is assigned to someone or it will likely not get done.</p>


          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../orga/00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="00_intro.html">Core team meeting minutes</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2019-10-16.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2019-09-18.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../_sources/minutes/2019-10-02.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-09-18.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2019-10-16.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../index.html">conda-forge 2019.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.0.1.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>