---
title: '2019-11-12'
---
# 2019-11-12 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

### Your agenda items
* Qt update strategies. Marius said he was going to talk with Microsoft at the Numfocus summit / Pydata NYC. We agreed that we'd get updates from Marius at this dev meeting.
    * Context: We should be building Qt more regularly. How do we achieve this? Provisioning Windows Azure VMs seems like the best path forward. 
        * We'd need to make an Azure org (or whatever their term is) and then distribute credentials
        * We should consider talking to Microsoft about help doing this on Azure. 
        * Marius will run point on these conversations this week at NumFocus Summit and PyData.
        * Get updates from Marius at next dev meeting.
* (John/Eric) Aligning on GPU packages between CF and defaults
    * (Eric) Currently working internally and then with Josh to align on funding half time developer on distribution team for the rapids GPU needs.

* Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
    * Suggestion to changing linter to error when license is missing, can still merge  with a failure.
    * Can include license file which mentions that license is unclear.
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/pull/1102#issuecomment-553503902

* Advertise AMD GPU support.
    * AMD GPU runtime is in conda-forge now. Only need a recent Linux kernel in the user machine (And a supported AMD GPU of course)
    * write a note to NumFOCUS newsletter

* Should conda-forge be ping-ing maintainers for projects who's packages are being added to staged recipes?
    * eg. torchvision issue
    * Find the right wording to ping people without "bothering" them too much.
    * Invite to feedstock rather than in staged-recipes
    * What if maintainer says no, or asks to take the package down?

    This is an email I got when one of my (Jonathan's) packages was added to Fedora. 
    The author might have contacts me only about the issues.
    
    Greetings from a fellow NMR spectroscopist. In my role as a Fedora
    packager, I have built nmrglue for Fedora and Centos (or RHEL,
    Scientific linux, etc,). Users of these distributions can now install
    nmrglue using their respective package management tools.

    I am writing to you to bring up two "issues".
    ...

* Getting more contributors to conda-forge:
    * Should we do outchreachy with part of our funds? (GSoC but with our own funds. Higher contributor "conversion" rate than GSoC.)
    * Send stickers/t-shirts to reviewers on staged-recipes.

* Vote for Staged reciepes reminder!

* Python 3.8 migration
    * https://github.com/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+archived%3Afalse+org%3Aconda-forge+-review%3Achanges_requested+-repo%3Aconda-forge%2Fstaged-recipes+author%3Aregro-cf-autotick-bot+Rebuild+python38+

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

* Bot underwent some refactoring, causing outages, outages have been fixed
* Bot now supports bumping and not bumping build numbers 
* We've started pushing out on the backlog of pins (arrow-cpp, protobuf, occt)
* https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools
    * https://github.com/jjhelmus/conda_recipe_tools/blob/master/conda_recipe_tools/find_version.py#L74-L102

#### ARM

#### POWER

* Have access to a ppc64le machine for conda-forge through OSU OSL.
    * conda-forge is a supported FOSS project. (https://osuosl.org/services/powerdev/current-projects/)
    * If anybody needs access send your public SSH-key to Isuru

* conda-forge is now self-hosting. Drop defaults?

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates
How do we start getting traction on these?

#### [cfep-03](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5) Manual upload of builds

#### [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * proposal is not long being worked on
    * could be solved by virtual packages

#### [cfep-05](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3) dev/rc builds
    * 2 Nays, needs voting

#### [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * Is this necessary now that pinging staged-recipes works

#### cfep-08 Too Big To Fail


#### [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### Last meeting
* [ ] (Eric) regarding cfep-05, We should implement this in whatever way is as simple as possible for the conda-forge tooling ecosystem. If there is enough of sentiment that people want something more sophisticated, PRs welcome. Make this comment on cfep05

### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] (Filipe) CFEP-03: Review, fix any text and merge it in.
    * Minor updates that are needed. This will likely get done in December.
* [ ] (CJ) CFEP-08: Merge in with deferred status
    * Will check in next meeting.

### 3 meetings ago


### 4 meetings ago

* [ ] (Eric) Email out to see if we can get more engagement on regular dev meetings. 
* [x] (Sophia) Set up meeting to talk about Condafile stuff.
    * Will punt on this until she's working on this actively again
* [x] (Filipe) Ping Bjorn to try and get Debian community more involved with conda-forge
    * Going to drop this from our tracker
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.


