---
title: '2020-03-18'
---
# 2020-03-18 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

### Your agenda items

* (MB) Communication on keybase: Who, when, why, what?
    * What kinds of communication goes to keybase?
        * bot subteam is fully on keybase. used to use hangout chat, so keybase is definitely better than hangouts.
        * bot passwords, API keys, etc. are on keybase
    * How do we avoid split-brain between gitter.im and keybase?
* Whats up with the new google group?
    * Convienent format for emailing everyone without needing to dig out the csv list 

### Active votes

* Wolf to core
* CFEP-16
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/30#issuecomment-606064392

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11

* [cfep-14](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/25) security and systems subteam
    * Active vote

* [cfep-15](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/26) Deprecate Python 2.7 and vs2008
    * Active vote


## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### 2 meetings ago
* Remove conda forge readthedocs.
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954

### 3 meetings ago
* Open up a CFEP about what to do about Python 2.7.
    * [cfep issue #20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/issues/20)
    * [x] Someone volunteer to drive this CFEP to completion (Matt B.)
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support.

### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.

