---
title: '2020-09-30'
---
# 2020-09-30 conda-forge core meeting 


[Zoom link](https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/MejG5nUJSlyJCvI_ij7z7w)

## Attendees
    * Jonathan
    * Filipe
    * Marcelo
    * Matthew
    * Cheng
    * Wolf
    * Marcel
    * Eli
    * Crystal
    * Ray Douglass
    * Anthony
    * Eric
    * Lori
    * Isuru
 
## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call

* [x] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * First meeting of the month, screenshare and show the budget?
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)
        * reimbursement request for Anthony isn't showing up yet.
        * (AS) - I have resubmitted to rocket.

#### From previous meeting(s)
* [x] (JK) Completing Python 3.8 migration/
    * Are we ready to mark this as done ( https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/746 )?
    * If not, what else still needs to be done?

### Your new agenda items

* [x] (FF) Python 3.9 update?
    * Done. We need to decide if we want to merge it and play with RC or wait for the stable release (Oct 5).
    * (FF) To add test for tzdata on windows, need to include tzdata in python? Should we include it? This will increase the size of the package. System tzdata will *always* be more up to date on their system, so we may be more out of date than in the python version. tzdata should look at the system path before the local conda path first.
    * https://pypi.org/project/tzdata/
    * https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0615/ in particular https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0615/#sources-for-time-zone-data
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/python-feedstock/issues/392
      > Python distributors are encouraged to ensure that time zone data is installed
      > alongside Python whenever possible (e.g. by declaring tzdata as a dependency for the python package).
    * Ship it or no?
* [x] (Eli Rykoff, IF) update on osx arm64 and code signing
    * (ER) Got ARM packages running when the machine was received. Updated to latest Big Sur and everything broke. All dylibs and so's need to be signed for the OS to run them. Can be ad-hoc signature but it needs to be signed. Latest apple tools will autosign these tools (clang will produce an autosigned binary). Making things relocatable invalidates the signature. For arm64 binaries you run a signer tool and then things are able to run on it.
    * (IF) On Linux there's a tool to run so we can cross-compile from linux. On mac there's a system tool that's usable. 
        * Q: Does the signer system tool come with the bare system or with XCode? ER will confirm where this signer comes from.
    * (JH) Conda changes the binary when it does prefix replacement. Do we need to disable prefix replacement?
        * (CL) Prefix replacement for libcrypto.dylib, libssl.dylib, openssl executable.
    * (CL) Will Apple require an official signer cert? 
        * (ER) Release notes seem to indicate that self-signed certs are ok (for now).
        * (ED) Can Anaconda ping Apple to see if they're planning on changing this by release time?
    * (WV) Can we redistribute the signing tool?
        * (IF) Conda will need to depend on this signing tool if we're going to resign at install time
    * (MB) Do x86 packages also require signed packages?
        * (MRB) Only things on apple silicon will require this signing

* [x] (WV) ruby 2.7 can track features be removed with some other mechanism?
* [x] (WV) update on boa & quetz

### Pushed to next meeting

* [ ] (MRB for CJ) libcfgraph import tables
    * example: https://github.com/regro/libcfgraph/blob/master/import_maps/ag.json
    * only looks at .py files so probably does not cover compiled extensions
    * next move is to integrate with depfinder
    * still thinking about how to turn this info into a version requirement

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
2020-09-01

### Last meeting
2020-09-23
* [ ] (MRB)
    * do libgfortran name change
    * add target platform to hashes
    * do gfortran migration with bot
    * bump pinnings


### 2 meetings ago
2020-09-16
* [x] Get a call set up with Jon Mease about the kaleido staged recipes PR
    * Emailed on 2020-09-16
* [x] (FF) Open up a PR on the python feedstock for python 3.9 and see what fails


### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23
* [x] (MRB) start pushing images to quay (https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/152)

**OVH**
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we're adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
