---
title: '2021-08-25'
---
[hackmd](https://hackmd.io/3INm0EGoS5uS_S2ZxJNzaA)

# 2021-08-25 conda-forge core meeting 


[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/rKi3Rh-mTMKNBGtwQjwDcg)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://meet.google.com/ijv-qsvm-tvn
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [ ] intros for new folks on the call
    
* [ ] (CJ) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [x] open votes
    * none


#### From previous meeting(s)

### Your __new__() agenda items

* (MRB) welcome to our new core members!
    * please make a PR adding yourself to core.csv in the docs if you have not (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/c31dfd4fe000d52beaf0e06adabc67b70820b348/src/core.csv)

* Long-term video call options?
    * (MVN) Why not Flatiron zoom any more?
    * (ED) Voltron is happy to host but google meet is annoying because you have to "allow" everyone to join. 
      Anyone else have a zoom option?
    * (CJW) NumFOCUS seems to be able to give us a zoom room (I asked them to create it under conda-forge-core@googlegroups.com in case we need it)

* (MRB) new secrets/keys locations/handling
    * we've needed to clean this up a bit for a while now
    * now all shared keys are managed in the org secrets
    * eliminated the use of static tokens nearly everywhere in favor of github app generated tokens
        * generated token permissions have a small permission scope (basically read/write on repos and github actions triggers)
        * these tokens expire after one hour
        * still have static tokens in heroku and staged recipes
    * will be going through the current tokens and deactivating the ones I can
    * can we make some of the bot accounts non-admin users?

* (FF) NumFOCUS updates

* (IF) python 3.10 updates
    * unvendoring packages on windows
        * which means most python extensions will not be usable without activating env
    * _CONDA_PYTHON_SYSCONFIGDATA_NAME is removed
    * Need conda-build PR for 3.10.0rc1
    * (CJW) Uwe's proposal to perform the python migration on 3.10rc1 https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1499

* (CJW) Packaging-Con call for proposals, sponsorships
    * The CFP is open until August 30th
    * Packaging-Con is interested in corporate sponsors
        * JRG: Asking internally :) 

* (JL) PEP 668 proposed to improve interop between Python and distro package managers
    * Review: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2056
    * Rendered: https://github.com/python/peps/blob/e605832725b3a1f34d533bbcefbce6226fcfa1cb/pep-0668.rst
    * Related to Conda's interop functionality (https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/configuration/pip-interoperability.html)
    * JRG: Will ask Filipe (FFY00) if they want to join the calls

* (JL) Python bug about adding ability to add 3rd party install schemes
    * https://bugs.python.org/issue43976
    * Might be interesting for Conda to support (referenced from Filipe at Quansight)

* NUMFOCUS Wish List
    * https://hackmd.io/@RRHnS2XUSsKNtkPddhwnEw/H1YKZ-4bY

* (JK) what happened with azure?
    * (JK) [ ] to email steve at microsoft

### Pushed to next meeting

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs


* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting

### Last meeting

### 2 meetings ago

### Move to Issue Tracker
2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI 
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
