---
title: '2022-01-12'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2022-01-12


[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/KddwXrEcSdmFbBMVamfuLg)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

- Matti Picus (MP)
- Isuru Fernando
- CJ Wright
- Jaime Rodriguez
- Chris Burr
- Daniel Ching
- Dave Clements
- Edgar Margffoy
- Eric Dill
- Lori Burns
- John Kirkham
- Matthew Becker
- Cheng Lee
- Ken Odegard
- Wolf Vollprecht
- Jannis Leidel

## Agenda

### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * Daniel Ching - Argonne, wanting to be part of staged-recipes team
    * Dave Clements - 
        * just started at Anaconda (3.5 weeks ago) 
        * OSS community manager
        * came from galaxy (has been involved in bioconda) where he was doing similar work
        * part of his job is to make sure the OSS parts of the conda ecosystem dont get lost in the shuffle within Anaconda
    * Edgar Margffoy - works at Quansight
        * working on qt compilation
    * Ken Odegard
        * joined Anaconda team last fall
        * on conda team (works with triaging, tracking bugs, making progress)
    
* [x] (FF) budget
    * current approvals?
    * Whenever updated numbers land, please screenshare and show the budget.
        * Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)

* [x] open votes
    * none

* [x] 2022 Outreachy / GSoC 
    * Ask each week: Any interested parties in owning this?
    * Discussion 2021-11-03
        * If we want to do outreachy again we need a champion - Filipe can't do it next year. Same with GSoC.
        * GSoC is free to us
        * Outreachy costs us $$ ($6500). $6k for student, $500 for admin
        * Some interest from Jannis - he and Filipe will chat about possibly handing off
            * Trying to figure out what policy for interns at Anaconda - some overlap maybe. 
              Jannis wants to pick Filipe's brain. Dave C. has also done this in the past at galaxy

### From previous meeting(s)

 
### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (JRG/EM) Report `qt` status and potential blocks.
    * split the recipe into a bunch of components. have `qt-main` that has all the modules
    * builds time out after 6 hours - how to review and move forward with this?
        * MRB - post build logs so people can page through it and approve the merge. 
    * How to compile aarch64 for all of this - qt work is being financed on quansight side by TDK
        * TDK would be willing to fund a machine to compile aarch64
        * MRB - do we have the server from oracle?
        * IF - Edgar, send Isuru your public ssh key and he'll add you to access that aarch64 box

* [x] JRG - meeting tomorrow on GPU stuff internally at Quansight. Will update team after

* [x] (MRB) What is going on w/ Julia?
    * IF - just trying to figure out how to do Julia packages - we were lagging behind for the past couple of years. they have binary depenedency packages - we'd like julia to use the ones in our conda environments instead of theirs. some binary dependencies depend on julia's dependencies.

* [x] (UK) Removing `std=c++14` from clang activation
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/clang-compiler-activation-feedstock/pull/75
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/clang-compiler-activation-feedstock/issues/17#issuecomment-831987409
    * (IF) Wait for Kai to comment and merge the PR

* [x] (IF) skip: True recipes in staged-recipes
    * eg: https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/17276
    * TODO: MRB don't allow mirroring for cuquantum, cuquantum-python, cuda-python. any more?

* [x] Let Maxiconda know that we can't use their logo
    * https://www.maxiconda.org/
    * CJ and Jaime to coordinate since TDK is a quansight client

* (IF) m1 mac
    * Jaime - will check internally to see if there are m1 macs available
    * CBurr - will check with macstadium and see if they can add an m1 mac or swap the intel mac for m1 mac

* (MP) PyPy3.8
    * Hold off for another 2-3 weeks until 7.3.8

* (IF) New staged-recipes reviewers
    * Daniel Ching (carterbox)
    * (JK) Benjamin Bertrand (beenje) [happy to move this if needed]
    * Kolen Cheung (ickc)
    * (MRB) Bastian Zimmermann (@BastianZim)

* (JL) libmamba solver work update
    * release (opt-in) happening end of Jan/mid of Feb depending on releaes prep
    * additional feedback logging and issue management being set up
    * PR: https://github.com/conda/conda/pull/10881


### Pushed to next meeting

*** ARE ANY OF THE BELOW STILL RELEVANT? ***

* Skip next two CF meetings. Next meeting will be Jan 12, 2022

* (CB) Issues from supporting CentOS 6: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1436
    * Non trivial solver errors when dependencies drop support for CentOS 6
    * Growing number of packages use minor features from the newer glibc
    * Proposed solution:
        * Move to using CentOS 7 based docker container by default
        * Stop building with CentOS 6 on staged-recipes
        * static libs should have a run constraint on the new sysroot
        * Document common errors (e.g. O_PATH)
        * Add an admin command to migrate to CentOS 7?
        * make an announcement

* (MRB) keep ruby features
    * we've been removing them in the repodata patches ever since we started patching
    * it appears to be a purposeful addition to the patching, but a wrong one?
    * PR: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-repodata-patches-feedstock/pull/193
    * related CEP draft: https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/11
    
* JRG: Standardize Windows builds with Docker images (e.g. https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-nanoserver)
    * Building conda-standalone on GitHub Actions vs Azure Pipelines results in different behaviour (`_ssl` error on GHA's version)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/928
    * Licensing? https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/windowscontainers/images-eula

* JRG: Quansight has now access to the GPU server. Next steps?

* JL/JRG: libmamba in conda progress report
    * main feature PR: https://github.com/conda/conda/pull/10881

* JL: conda-build 3.21.6/conda 4.11 kerfuffle

* JL: conda-archive GitHub org, https://github.com/conda-archive

### Active votes

### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

### TODOs
2021-12-01
* WV: Set up meet-and-greet call with homebrew team?
* MRB: (repodata patches) make a cron job that runs show_diff.py and posts an issue + commit if it is non-empty
* 
2021-11-03
- Self-hosting CI TODOs: 
    - Change URL from drone.conda-forge.org. Proposals:
        - woodpecker.conda-forge.org
        - ci.conda-forge.org
    - Set up monitoring
        - Quantstack is setting up grafana for the mirror
    - 

2021-10-18

2021-09-22

* [x] (WV): TensorFlow-GPU ready to go, just need to decide if GPU should get prio over CPU?!
    * GPU gets prio

* (MRB) master to main move (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1162)
    * everything done except feedstocks, releases, conda-smithy, and our github actions
        * releases is broken, opened an issue with github
    * some options for feedstocks
        * make sure to change the upload on branch key
    * [x] (MRB) make an announcement on how to update local clones (moved to the issue above)
    * [x] (MRB) make sure to update upload_on_branch (moved to the issue above)


2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI 
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core
* [x] (FF) Outreachy would cost 6500 USD.
  * Next steps: write abstract and vote on spending of funds.

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/2a2d3caaf7d74eb370ac40c679ba337a73d15c8a/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
