---
title: '2022-08-24'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2022-08-24

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/lmPaiDDKRV--LEygfUrngg)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight / conda-forge |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Matthew Becker | MRB | beckermr | cf |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA / conda-forge        |
| Ryan May                | RM       | dopplershift     | Unidata / conda-forge       |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |

12 people total.


### Standing items

* [ ] intros for new folks on the call

* [ ] open votes

### From previous meeting(s)

### Your __new__() agenda items

* [X] (DPC) Outreachy community applications are due Sep 8/9.
    * Do we have projects?
    * Dave: We have one more call before the final deadline.
    * Filipe: regenerate recipes with grayskull
    * Jaime: post-conda-build conda-verify resurrection
    * Isuru: UCRT based mingw-w64 toolchain

* [x] (KK) Last week for current Outreachy intern, Surbhi
    * No video call presentation, but a blog post will be available
    * JK: Any pending PRs?
        * KK: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1793 <-- This one just needs a check. Should be good to merge?
        * KK: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1790 <-- This one is not fully complete, as neither Surbhi, Matt, nor I know much about Perl

* [x] (IF) Close python 3.10 migration
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/3273
    - Status: https://conda-forge.org/status/#python310
    - Discussed dropping Python 3.7
        - IF: Make announcement to give people a heads up about the upcoming drop in October?
        - JK: Maintaining so many Python versions at the same time might be not needed if we can rely on stable APIs like HPy
        - JK (from chat): October 3rd is when Python 3.11 comes out ( https://peps.python.org/pep-0664/ )


* [x] (JRG) [Merging glob-strings in `conda` PR](https://github.com/conda/conda/pull/11612) - is it ok to merge or too disruptive?
    * Intersection of regexes, supported by these two answers:
        * https://stackoverflow.com/a/24102500/3407590
        * https://stackoverflow.com/a/24154392/3407590

* [x] (MRB) any updates on nvidia?
    * Going well, waiting for NVIDIA to communicate with NumFOCUS.

