---
title: '2022-11-30'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2022-11-30

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/jEpu4WolRv294NzZ3AJdOw)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Eric Dill               | EDD      | ericdill         | Voltron Data, cf            |
| Jason McAllister        | JM       | solid-snake-jay  | Anaconda                    |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda, cf                |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda, cf                |
| Matthew R Becker        | MRB      | beckermr         | cf                          |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| Mike McCarty            | MM       | mmccarty         | NVIDIA                     |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

14 people total


### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * alex dibbley from nvidia

* [x] open votes

### From previous meeting(s)

* [x] results of staged-recipes reviewer vote
    *  We had 33 people invited to vote, 25 core, 8 emeritus. 
       only 14 voted and they all seem like active core.
    [x] ERIC TODO: ping Filipe add them to staged recipes

* [x] (DPC) Should we shut down [conda-forge@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/g/conda-forge?pli=1) at the same time we shut the conda google group mailing list (which is the end of the year)?
    * Lean towards getting rid of it.  Does not appear to be monitored.
    * Get rid of it.
    * DPC will post a notice about this to the google group.  End date is 12/31.

### Active votes

### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (JK) CUDA licensing & packaging update
    * (JK) CUDA licensing done
    * (JK) CUDA 11.8 packaging
    * (AD) Adding new CUDA packages
        * Build order: https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/issues/21382
        * First recipe: https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/21350 (reviews welcome!)
    * (MRB) Have some questions
        * (MRB) Should we move to webpage repo?
        * (JK) Package addition so ok to close after added. No strong preferences
        * (MVK) Let's pin to `staged-recipes` since this will go on for a while. Done
        * 
        * 
        * (MVK) Licensing SPDX
            * (JK) Can do `LicenseRef-*`
            * (JK) Currently do [this]( https://github.com/conda-forge/cudatoolkit-feedstock/blob/531e4594992258568fe187bc5c4e40d8c9c57b27/recipe/meta.yaml#LL600 )
            * (JK) Maybe we can keep doing this?
            * (MVK, MRB) +1
            * (AD) Can add
* [x] (DPC) Submitting [Conda Ecosystem Update](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QnlgLCwJHnfpm88Ql8eOZTDwexEaV4G--cXnyQrV2HU/edit) talk to [PyCascades](https://pretalx.com/pycascades-2023/cfp) in a few hours.  
    * I would love your input on the abstract.  If it gets accepted will also ask for help on the slides.
    * [conda-forge scipy talk if you want to use content from it](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BfJzH-ohX69Pzwveaau_9y7MWNbaKdXX_EDTBzEDdEk/edit)
* [x] (DPC) [PyCon US 2023 Tutorial, Talk, Charla, and Poster submissions](https://us.pycon.org/2023/speaking/guidelines/) are due on December 9.
    * Would a "Make your software available via conda-forge" tutorial be a good fit
        * Yes.
    * (JL) Should we present an update of the EuroSciPy talk?
        * Leaning towards that... maybe
* [ ] (JK) `.conda` follow up
    * [x] (JK) Update `conda-package-handling` to `2.0.1` ( https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-package-handling-feedstock/pull/68 )
    * [x] (JK) Fixes to `re-render` ( https://github.com/conda-forge/webservices-dispatch-action/issues/18 )
    * [x] (JL) clarification about compression, refs https://github.com/conda/conda-build/pull/4650
      * (MRB) Needs a new release of `conda-build`
      * (MB) Not urgent
      * (MRB) Will add 19 for Zstd compression
    * [x] (JL) anaconda.org partial downtime this week: https://github.com/conda/infra/discussions/656

* [x] (JK) `openssl` 1/3 & `qt` 5/6
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/3773
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/qt-main-feedstock/pull/72
    * (MB) How do we build (manual builds)?
    * (JK) Think mostly automated. Though have had one user build locally and share logs/packages for upload

* [ ] (JL) Upcoming conda 22.11.0, conda-libmamba-solver releases
    * [ ] https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/22.11.0
        * [ ] NEW! Download and extract packages in parallel
        * [ ] NEW! plugins (launching with solver, subcommands and virtual packages plugin hooks)
            * [ ] E.g. cuda virtual package: https://github.com/conda/conda/blob/main/conda/plugins/virtual_packages/cuda.py
        * [ ] Switched to ruamel.yaml (look ma, no underscore!)
    * [ ] https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-feedstock/pull/181

### Pushed to next meeting

* [ ] (JRG) Support for abi3 Python packages with abi3audit checks?
    * https://blog.trailofbits.com/2022/11/15/python-wheels-abi-abi3audit/

### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded
