---
title: '2023-04-05'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-04-05

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees
 
| Name               | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements      | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Daniel Holth       | DH       | dholth           | Anaconda                    |
| Filipe Fernandes   | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Vinicius D. Cerutti| VDC      | viniciusdc       | conda-forge                 |
| Jannis Leidel      | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/conda-forge        |
| Ryan May           | RM       | dopplershift     | UCAR/conda-forge            |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-G. | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| John Kirkham       | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |

11 people total


## Introductions



## Agenda



### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [X] (DH) Conda 23.3.1 .jlap demo @dholth
    - Experimental flag probably dropped in next release
    - data has been on servers for months.
    - https://asciinema.org/a/EWlxpiaTAMudMfX46GHc6C9Qn
    - https://asciinema.org/a/9qZ9oGiXtkXOJvh7gy3TXywct
    - video demonstrates a larger 1.3MB update and a small 1.4kB update
    - conda's `.state.json` is closer to the CEP compared to conda 23.1
    - jlap flag also enables repodata.json.zst, cache file locking

- [x] (JK) CUDA 12
    - Please help review library PRs.
    - 

- [x] (HM/JRG) As part of the czi-conda-forge project, we aim to upload packages to an OCI registry (ghcr.io) alongside anaconda.org, here is a document explaining the context and referring to related opened PRs:
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wFXIUeFN803TcVxN2CynII4jmko2lnFzssGuDaDHhkA/edit?usp=sharing
  - Next steps to be discussed
  - How do we do staging?
      - 
- [X] (JRG) State of graph metadata repositories
- [x] (DPC) Anaconda.org user interface update.
    - Anyone interested in talking to the UX team at Anaconda to help guide how this goes?
- [ ] ()


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
