---
title: '2023-09-20'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-09-20

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | Argonne National Laboratory |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Sylvain Corlay          | SC       | SylvainCorlay    | QuantStack                  |
| Thorsten Beier          | TB       | derThorsten      | QuantStack                  |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            |                             |
| Matthew R Becker        | MRB      | beckermr         | cf                          | 
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (HV) `-dev` vs. `-devel`
  - came up in boost unification, current PR uses the latter based on Isuru's [rationale](https://github.com/conda-forge/boost-feedstock/pull/164#issuecomment-1681583116)
  - matches Anaconda naming & CDTs, does not match recent CUDA feedstocks, tangentially related to distro discussion (RHEL vs. Debian). We should try to choose one.
  - JRG: [Our own data](https://github.com/conda-forge/boost-feedstock/pull/164#issuecomment-1691100805)
- [x] (HV) Branch deletion policy?
  - I'd [suggest](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1972) to delete dead branches on feedstocks (e.g. long-EOL maintenance branches), and keep history as a git tag on the feedstock. Thoughts?
  - MRB: Historic norm is to leave this to feedstock maintainers.
  - JRG: if we go this way, make it happen via admin-requests, not through UI with no papertrail (automation for the win!)  

 
### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (HV) Yearly python releases vs. 5 year upstream support
  - Releases moved closer together due to PEP602, 3.8 still has one full year before its EOL when we start with 3.12 migration ([details](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/2004#issuecomment-1717526948)).
  - Generally: Do we prefer 5 CPython builds, or are we fine with dropping support for `v3.{N-4}` one year before its EOL?
  - Jannis: Look at https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-package-data/issues/41 again
  - MRB: conclusion "we'll make a best-effort committment to all 5 python versions but individual feedstock manitainers may remove older versions at their discretion."

- [x] (IF) MinGW with UCRT64 toolchain and updated M2
    - Binary repackage of MSYS2 packages
      (for build only. No linking with downstreams)
    - Binary repackage of `libgcc, libwinpthread`
    - Getting rid of `m2w64-` packages
        - Can we use MSVC/VisualStudio built packages?
        - Are there any that we use with C++ dependencies?
        - Current use is limited to https://gist.github.com/isuruf/d24ebbfaf06318beb992349c90e61ca0
    - MSYS2 bug: `$(cygpath -w $(cygpath -u $CONDA_PREFIX/Library/bin)) = $CONDA_PREFIX/Library/usr/bin`
    - Get more storage on anaconda.org/isuruf
        - Jannis: I'll ask at Anaconda, how much do you need?
        - 2GB

- [X] (SC) Emscripten-wasm-32 builds on conda-forge
  - Presentation of emscripten-forge by Thorsten Beier
  - Presentation of use cases
  - Potential CFEP opening
  - Questions:
    - Use CMake directly instead of em-make (?)
    - Compiler ABI incompatibilities might make it hard to have global migrations.
    - Support needed at conda-index & anaconda.org: add issue in conda/infrastructure.
    - We should start an issue in conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (JK) NumPy 2.0 planning
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1997
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-repodata-patches-feedstock/issues/516
    - HV: Should be possible to only build against 2.x, result [will be](https://githubx.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/4816#issuecomment-1717038980) ABI-compatible with 1.2x
        - IF: It will **not** be ABI compatible if the package author changes
          `NPY_TARGET_VERSION`. Need ways to ensure that it does not happen.
- [ ] (JRG) Post-mortem on the [Windows upload issue](https://github.com/conda-forge/status/issues/157) introduced in conda-smithy 3.26 (now fixed)

- [ ] (JL) FYI the creation of a conda "build tools" team under conda governancy policy (still federated until team figures out team charter) for conda-build and hopefully other build tools, welcome to join:
    - [ ] https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4698

### CFEPs

- [ ]
