---
title: '2023-07-12'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-07-12

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Eric Dill               | EDD      | ericdill         | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev                  |
| Bianca Henderson        | BH       | beeankha         | Anaconda                    |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Matthew Becker          | MRB      |  beckermr        | cf                          |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

11 people total

### Standing items

- [x]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (JK) Windows + ARM
    - (IF) Couple packages built & uploaded: Zstd + zlib
      - https://github.com/conda-forge/zstd-feedstock/pull/72
      - https://github.com/conda-forge/zlib-feedstock/pull/72
    - (IF) Need conda-build PR (to avoid workarounds)
        - PR: https://github.com/conda/conda-build/pull/4867
    - (IF) Need to figure out how we test packages
    - (IF) Cross-python still needs to work
    - (IF) CMake and simple packages compile
    - (IF) Tests in `bld.bat` need to be skipped when cross-compiling
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/zlib-feedstock/pull/72/files#diff-54cf74e113dd3f6d11e092fdb1d888ec82c69bdafbb15cfb6570c83ecad28f33R61-R65
    - (JK) Question about machines
        - (IF) Could use Microsoft hosted runners (need admin permissions on GH account)
            - (MRB) Can we be added to their account?
                - (IF) Can ask. Mainly they need a token
                - (MRB) Token could work
            - (JRG) Also happy to help setup
            - (MRB) Do we need to gatekeep
                - (IF) Not needed
- [x] (JK) Drop CentOS 6 & use CentOS 7
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1436
    - Most recent discussion around Zstd
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1436#issuecomment-1608454474
    - Extra flags (needs testing)
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/50
    - CentOS 7 EOL is May 31 2024: https://wiki.centos.org/About/Product
    - MRB: Announce that our EOL will correspond to EOL for CentOS 6.
    - 

### Active votes

- [x] [Code of Conduct sub-team formation](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1745)
  - Vote deferred: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1745#issuecomment-1632970553

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (JK) Sunsetting old CUDAs (follow up)
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/237
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/1708
    - CUDA hardware support
        - https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus
    - (JRG) Mentioned to a couple HPC groups that CUDA minimum may be bumped & they moved to 11.2
    - (MRB) Believe DOE would be ok with CUDA 11.2+
    - Summary: we don't care about 11.0 and 11.1 support.
    - (IF) but should do some final checking with others.
- [x] (BH) Upcoming [conda](https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/12849) + [conda-build](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4926) releases
    - Channel priorities (when will we move to strict?)
        - https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/tasks/manage-channels.html#strict
    - (MBa) If we change this we neeed an announcement.
    - (MRB) can follow deprecation cycle.
    - 

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (HV) [non-urgent] Feedback on possible [branch deletion policy](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1972)

### CFEPs

- [ ]
