---
title: '2023-05-17'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-05-17

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | Argonne National Laboratory |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Asmit Malakannawar      | AM       | asmitbm          | GSoC Contributor            |
| Eric Dill               | EDD      | ericdill         | Anaconda/cf                 |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|James Loy                |   JL     |      jmlphd      |     Anaconda                |
|  Matthew Becker                       |  MRB        |   beckermr               |         cf                    |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

15 people total

### Standing items

- [ ] ( )

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ] ( )

### Active votes

- [ ] ( )

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [x] (JK) CTK / CUDA 12 updates
    - Follow up to layout issue: https://github.com/conda-forge/cuda-nvcc-feedstock/issues/12
        - Split out components ( https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/22802 )
        - Related updates ( https://github.com/conda-forge/cuda-nvcc-feedstock/pull/13 )
    - CUDA 12 components
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/issues/21382
- [x] (JK) GLIBC 2.28
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1941
    - (MRB) sysroot package updated
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/47
            - Please review
            - Probably some minor diff from CentOS to Alma
            - https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/47#issuecomment-1550316946
    - (JK) Docker images
        - Compilers cached
            - https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/blob/6d30f8fc76d5542a15330112f5b705bcc78b1887/linux-anvil-comp7/Dockerfile#L46-L65
            - Can keep
            - Drop
            - Replace with new compilers whenever
- [x] (JK) Windows MinGW & UCRT
    - Updates on what we would like packaged from MinGW?
        - (CHL) Not definitive answer yet; we'll start with current `msys2` set and update those. Will add others as needed.
        - (IF) Noticed Boost is in current set --- that (and a maybe few others) should be removed
        - (CHL) Anaconda will publish a list for public comment
        - (IF) We should de-bundle some packages and preserve the msys2 naming structure (e.g., compilers)
- [x] (JK) Windows ARM
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1940
    - (DPC) At [Open Source Summit North America Summit (Linux Foundation hosted)]( https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/ ) talked to Microsoft and are pushing ARM
- [x] (DPC) Anyone going to [FOSSY 2023](https://2023.fossy.us/)?
    - Thinking about sumitting a talk - a conda ecosystem update.
    - Proposals due tomorrow.
    - Wolf will be a coauthor.  Dave will send draft submission to him tonight, and submit with revisions tomorrow
- [x] (AM) - Going to work on conda-forge's website in GSoC period. [Proposal](https://hackmd.io/@conda-forge/ryxecoj2j) 
- [x] (JRG) conda/schemas + conda-forge.yml pydantic model / schema?
    - Goal is to improve documentation (schema can be a source of truth)
    - Can lint configuration
    - 
- [ ] (MvN) Making some changes to conda-lock
    - Can we assume Python packages depend on `python` (would simplify logic)? Yes
    - 

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
