---
title: '2023-07-26'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-07-26

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Bianca Henderson        | BH       | beeankha         | Anaconda                    |
| Keith Kraus             | KJK      | kkraus14         | Voltron Data                |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev                  |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |
|  Matthew R Becker       | MRB      | beckermr         | cf                          |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |

12 people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (JK) GLIBC 2.28
    - Red Hat source is no longer available, causing pain.
    - KJK Alma Linux put out announcement about being ABI compatible.
    - MRB: we don't yet know how this is going to shake out. Might be prudent to wait and see who wins.
    - How concerned are we with bug-for-bug compatibility
        - Some concern, but not enough to hold this back?
    - CUDA 12 blocked until this is resolved.
    - JK will create an issue
- [x] (MRB) yank conda 23.7 `--json` flag is broken
    - This can't be! (Or, it should not have made it through testing)
    - https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/12928
- [x] (JK) Windows ARM
    - CLA holdup: https://github.com/conda/conda-build/pull/4867
    - JL: working towards having CLA conform with governance.  Working with NumFOCUS. It's coming!
    - Planning to patch feedstock with this change
- [x] (BH) Feedstock updates for [conda](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-feedstock/pull/213)/[conda-build](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-build-feedstock/pull/204) July releases have been filed
- [x] (DPC) [PackagingCon](https://packaging-con.org/) submission deadline is July 31.
    - Anyone want to submit something about conda-forge?
    - Jaime will submit somthing about conda. Conda-store also coming.
- [x] (DPC) conda-forge presence at NumFOCUS projects meetup in Amsterdam?
    - Meeting is 11-13 September, just after DISC, and just before PyData Amsterdam.
    - Opening event the night of 10 Sept.
    - Collaborative work on 13 Sept
    - Most expenses are paid by NumFOCUS.
    - Wolf and Jaime will represent conda-forge.
    - Jannis is going for conda., but is willing to step aside.
- [x] (WV) sneak peek of pixi
    - Pixi fresh look at tooling
    - Written in rust on top of rattler.
    - 
- [ ] 
- [ ] 


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
