---
title: '2023-01-11'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-01-11

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading


## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Marcelo Trevisani       | MDT      | marcelotrevisani | conda-forge                 |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | Argonne                     |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Jaime RodrÃ­guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix/cf                   |
| Matthew Becker          | MRB      | beckermr         | cf                          |
|||||

15 people total (MRB arrived halfway through)


### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * Jesse Wiles, dev on Anaconda.org

* [ ] open votes
    * 

### From previous meeting(s)




### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (DPC) Channels
    * Google Group has been shutdown
    * Matrix conda-forge space: 
    * Docs of all channels
        * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1l-djUkCUpEeGHd1DOklppi-lwHCH2yov0bUD4krOnp0/edit#gid=1720588473
    * 
* [x] (JK) Tokens needing resets
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/status/issues/137
    * Need to start rotating tokens.  CircleCI had a leak and we use same token  Have started rotating
        * Mitigations: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1709, https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1708
    * All feedstocks now have broken tokens.
    * We had a bug!
    * Matt fixed, but still cleaning up.
    * 2/3 of packages are through with the rotation.
    * New token requests go to Admin-requests repo
* [x] (MB) Python prerelease
    * Came up on the last Conda community sync meeting.
    * This is _not_ to please the ones begging for newer version being available "ASAP"
    * Python 3.12 removes distutils from stdlib (!!)
        - `distutils` currently used in `conda.common.pkg_formats.python` and `conda.auxlib.packaging`; see [conda/conda#11136](https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/11136)
            - JRG: distutils still in setuptools, no? JL: yes, but there are patches to remove setuptools IIRC, e.g. https://github.com/conda/conda-build/pull/4443
            - HV: distutils will continue to live in setuptools
    * Related CEP draft about CPython support for conda: https://github.com/conda-incubator/ceps/pull/24
* [x] (MB) R 4.2.2 (released in October) Windows builds
    * 
* [x] (MB) MinGW-w64/MSYS2 UCRT64
    * https://www.msys2.org/docs/environments/
    * https://www.msys2.org/news/#2022-10-29-changing-the-default-environment-from-mingw64-to-ucrt64
    * https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/F37MingwUCRT (Should look at other distros to see what they've done)
    * (CHL) Windows >=10 ships UCRT by default.  Windows 7 and 8.1 have officially reached EOL, so Anaconda (is planning to drop)/(has dropped) support for them.
    * repo with the repackaging work:  https://github.com/conda-forge/msys2-recipes
* [x] (MB) Travis CI w/ ppc64le
    * No other ppc64le provider available (in the future?).
    * Who uses ppc64le? Can we let them pay/work on supporting this platform?
    * (CHL) Is Oregon State's Open-Source Labs a feasible option?
        * https://osuosl.org/services/powerdev/
        * https://powerci.osuosl.org/
* [x] (JRG) Updates on the GPU CI and next steps
    * Built first GPU package on conda-forge yesterday.
    * Need to figure access control (to our GPU server)
    * Applies to Travis and GPU server.
    * Could also be applied to access to future (for example) AWS credits.
* [x] (JRG) Updates on the CZI grant
    * $325K over next 2 years to be spent by Quansight and QuantStack.
    * Follow progress on https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/czi-conda-forge-mgmt
    * 3 areas:
        * Infrastructure
        * OCI mirroring
        * Dashboarding
    * Work done by two companies, but work benefits conda-forge, and bioconda
* [x] (JRG) Meeting notes workflow
    * Use singl trigger to create notes, put on HackMD, and then sync back to GitHub.
    * Might be in place by next call.
* [ ] updates on bots and secrets
    * we've centralized most of what we use in 1password
    * i've removed some of the keybase files that are old or misleading
    * we use github apps for everything where we can
    * will develop notes
* [X] (HV) OpenSSL 3: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/3838
    * JRG: Deferred to next meeting.


### Active votes

* [cfep-21](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/47) license packages for static/header libraries
	* Opened July 25, 2022 ends August 2, 2022


### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded
