---
title: '2023-06-28'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-06-28

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | Argonne National Laboratory |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

12 people total

### Standing items

- [x]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (HV) Boost Unification (see below)
- [ ] (HV) Windows Fortran migration (see below)

### Active votes

- [x] New core member application
- [x] (not yet made) new staged-recipes application
  - Check your inbox for both 

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (JRG): Upcoming GPU/long-job CI service. Question about mentioning partners/sponsors.
  - Quansight reached an agreement with a client to support this out of the goodness of their heart.
- [x] (JRG): UI/UX updates on new website and dashboard.
  - Gabriela has been working on this [proposal for the dashboard](https://www.figma.com/proto/rdSQ2UFHNgLeq80LMxkV48/Website?page-id=0%3A1&type=design&node-id=87-339&viewport=-234%2C174%2C0.17&scaling=contain&starting-point-node-id=46%3A431)
  - Asmit has been working on this [proposal for the frontpage](https://www.figma.com/file/c7CHCElI13imGMWzTct1ss/Conda-forge-website-redesign?type=design&node-id=10%3A831&t=xXGM2QwHbeOFa8lM-1)
  - Intent to apply for a [Sovereign Tech Fund challenge](https://sovereigntechfund.de/en/challenges/) for documentation, revamping the (failed) GSoD application.
- [x] (JK) GLIBC 2.28
  - https://almalinux.org/blog/impact-of-rhel-changes/
  - JK: CentOS 7 is EOL in 1 yr https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol (June 30, 2024)
  - MRB: We just wait and see what Alma does?
  - IF: Maybe we can try Debian if needed.
- [ ] (JK) Windows + ARM
- [x] (JRG) Update conda-forge teams and subteams
  - Specially important: [code of conduct team PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1745)
- [X] (JRG) Definition of conda-forge ([see PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1671))
- [x] (HV) Boost unification
   - [PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/boost-feedstock/pull/164) blocked on scope: unify & rename (as previously discussed) or also switch to `-devel` packages (which [IMO](https://github.com/conda-forge/boost-feedstock/pull/164#issuecomment-1596280094) opens a CFEP-20-sized can of worms)
   - Migrator [PR](https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/pull/1668) +/- complete -- would like to do this before CPython 3.12 in the fall
- [x] (HV) Windows Fortran [migration](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/1359)
  - Open since 2 years; fortran-on-win-migratability will be important soon (scipy will need a new flang version to support windows builds for Python 3.12 _at all_; without migration we'd get run-dep conflicts with other `libflang`-dependents)
  - Migrator work that Isuru wanted has been done -- can we start?
  - Side benefit: Would [enable](https://github.com/conda-forge/openblas-feedstock/pull/115) openblas+openmp on windows
- [X] (HV) PyPy 3.10 Migration?
  - Last PyPy [release](https://github.com/conda-forge/pypy3.6-feedstock/issues/104) introduced PyPy 3.10 and dropped PyPy 3.8 
  - Current round of NEP29 releases (numpy, scipy, etc.) already dropping 3.8
  - Possibly migrate PyPy 3.10 & drop PyPy 3.8? When?
- [ ] (JK) Drop CentOS 6 & use CentOS 7
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1436
- [x] (WV) Sneak Peek of new resolver
    - Port of libsolv to Rust.
- [x] (WV) Anybody wants to talk about pixi? https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi
- [x] (KK) Is the current functionality for anaconda.org's package instructions/metadata editing good enough?
    - Don't have a ton of background on this, but: https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/discussions/649
    - You can remove install instructions on .org now. Is that enough?
    - Certain packages are build on different feedstocks even though they have the same name
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/graalpy-feedstock/issues/4
    - Expand sorting functionality of packages - sort by architecture, etc.?
    - Somehow linking to recipes (feedstock link on page)
    - Matt+John send details on api call behavior we ran into recently

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (JK) Windows + ARM
- [ ] (JK) Drop CentOS 6 & use CentOS 7

### CFEPs

- [ ]
