---
title: '2023-05-03'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2023-05-03

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Last week's meeting](https://hackmd.io/#REPLACE_ME#)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | conda-forge/Anaconda        |
| Marius van Niekerk      | MvN      | mariusvniekerk   | VoltronData/cf             |
| Ryan May                | RMM      | dopplershift     | Unidata/cf          |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| Avalon                  | A        | uwuvalon         | Anaconda                    |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

18 people total


### Introductions

- [x] Andrew Vallette on the packaging team at Anaconda.

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (WV) rattler-build - new conda package build tool: https://github.com/prefix-dev/rattler-build
    - builds conda packages from recipe format that looks a lot like BOA
    - Writes metadata in rattler format
    - Did a live demo.
    - Aiming to give better diagnostics
    - MRB: BOA Spec?
        - We need to figure out what to do.
        - Need a defined spec that everyone can write to
        - JL: what do we need to do create a spec?
            - Selectors, 
            - MVN: version number in spec.  People were in violent agreement.
        - JL: We need a spec
        - WV: we have a JSON schema.
        - JK: argues for a new YAML format. Would be interested in being involved in Spec writing group
        - Some recipes will/may be left behind.  
        - ACTION: Discusss this on Conda call next week.
- [x] (JK) New CTK packages / CUDA 12
    - Opening CUDA 12 migrator
        - Package layout changes:
            - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/4400
            - Document?
            - Message?
            - Incremental rollout?
            - Marius suggested bot message customization
                - May need to go in bot code
                - Could add change to bot code to 
    - (IF) Has question about layout
        - (JK) Using `cuda` would be ok
            - (IF) Changes a lot of things for CMake
                - (JK) Discussion to have with Robert Maynard
        - (JK)
    - (Longer-term) CUDA 11 backport? (punted to later meeting)
        - New style packages on older CUDA versions
        - What version to start with (`nvidia` channel has `11.4`)?
        - `cudatoolkit` becomes metapackage?
        - Potential to drop some CUDA specific things
            - Docker images
            - conda-forge-ci-setup simplification
- [x] (JK) Windows MinGW & UCRT
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/r-base-feedstock/issues/248
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1654
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1044
    - (AV): Anaconda is looking into ways to fix this issue
        - Do we binary repack MSYS2 packages? Or rebuild?
        - How can we automate UCRT-based MSYS2 Windows?
        - Could even automate recipe generation
          - https://github.com/conda-forge/msys2-recipes
        - (MRB) CDT approach could be reused here
          - https://github.com/conda-forge/cdt-builds
        - (IF) What do we want packaged
            - May need customization; e.g., `run_exports`
            - 
        - (AV): Will share work as it progresses
        - (MB): Old MinGW use subfolder?
            - Do we want to change this for UCRT? Or keep the same?
            - (IF) Depends on what we package
- [x] (JK) GLIBC 2.28
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1941
    - (MRB) Need review
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-repodata-patches-feedstock/pull/441
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/47
    - (MRB) Downloaded RPM need review
        - Directory level varies / need to confirm that is the right level
        - (MB) Do we need language packs?
            - (MRB) Have English in one
            - (MRB) Have one with many languages
            - (IF)
    -
- [x] (JK) Windows ARM
    - (SD) Hi :) Happy to answer questions
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1940
    - (IF) https://github.com/conda-forge/vc-feedstock/pull/55
    - (IF) Question for Steve: What do you plan on building in the first year?
        - (IF) Conda / Mamba / Boa needed to build, Installer?
        - (SD) Installer is ambitious (would be great! not required). Want attempts/CI issues visible
        - (SD) Challenges getting more hardware atm. So just be able to build
        - (IF) Python would be a goal? Maybe NumPy & SciPy?
        - (JK) What would be helpful for finance conversation?
            - (SD) Ask for less? ;) Though nothing has really been asked yet.
            - (SD) Finn can help :)
        - (IF) Can build `zlib`! :tada: 
            - Local build
        - (MvN) Maybe macOS ARM list could be a starting point
        - (SD) Rust toolchain should work (testing with cryptography)
        - (IF) Does Clang cross-compilation work?
            - (SD) Using Cygwin (not Clang) atm
- [ ] (HV) Boost Harmonization
    - Now has PR: https://github.com/conda-forge/boost-feedstock/pull/164
    - Discussion yielded bikeshed à la: `libboost`, `libboost-headers`, `libboost-python`
- [ ] (MB) R 4.3 migration
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/4363
    - Any objections on kicking it off?
    - Windows TeX build issues for 4.1 might need to be resolved due to other non-R migrations?

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [X] (DPC) Package building tutorial at PyCon US 2023 was a success.  
    - We had ~25 participants
    - Tutorial will be published online after some cleanup.
- [X] (JRG) SDG for opt-in CI accepted (related to https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1875 and GPU server)
- [X] (WV) SDG for pubgrub on rattler accepted too
- [ ]

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
