---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2024-12-11'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2024-12-11

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | conda-forge, Quansight      |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Klaus Zimmermann        | KZ       | zklaus           | Quansight                   |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | NVIDIA, conda-forge         |
| Sophia Castellarin      | SC       | soapy1           | Quansight                   |
| Marius van Niekerk      | MvN      | mariusvniekerk   | Voltron Data, conda-forge |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [x] (DJC) Why do only x86 sysroot=2.17 packages run export `__glibc`?
    - arm and powerpc sysroots do not have the run export until later versions, this means there is no minimum `__glibc` version for alt archs when built with the default sysroot.
    - run_exports were added to the sysroot package here: https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/11/files
    - HV: Likely to be an artifact of legacy updates. x86 used to use 2.12, and then was bumped to 2.17, but ppc/arm was always on 2.17. Maybe it was never updated because it was just an oversight and not needed at that time. In a way it's redundant, because there's nothing before 2.17 in those archs, but yes, it's inconsistent in that sense.
    - Action item: open an issue or PR to address the inconsistency.
- [x] (DJC) Acceptable to use readelf to check NVIDIA redists for glibc symbols instead of pinning os_version
    - In a previous meeting, we agreed that NVIDIA redists should choose os_version to match the minimum supported glibc version. This way, tests would fail if the binaries were loaded. However, many feedstocks do not load the binaries during testing. Is it acceptable to use readelf to look for glibc-symbols instead?
    - Example feedstock where this type of checking is used: https://github.com/conda-forge/cudnn-feedstock/pull/97
    - HV: Makes sense. More comprehensive than hoping to fail on a bad glibc.

- [x] (KZ) Is something funky going on with blas, c.f. https://conda-forge.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/457337-general/topic/error.20while.20loading.20shared.20libraries.3A.20libblis.2Eso.2E4 ?
    - Our dependency on MKL introduces problems wrt keeping up with blas/lapack versions
    - Likely candidate with this specific issue is transient dependency pulling in blis or llvm

- [ ] (HV) Numpy 2.0: when to close that [migration](https://conda-forge.org/status/migration/?name=numpy2)? What metrics are we tracking to make that decision?
  - Issues in staged-recipes for any recipe that depends on something which already requires 2.0 (can be overridden with `conda_build_config.yaml`)
      - JRG: CBC override sounds good, make sure we undo this once we close the migrator though.
      - HV: That buys us some time until we have to make that decision.
  - Action item: create that CBC override in staged-recipes.
- [ ] (HV) Feedback to `cache:` [CEP](https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/102)?
    - [ ] WV: Reusing the same `build` struct as in the regular output, but only `script` is used. Should only some `build.*` keys be allowed?
    - [ ] WV: Automatic injection or not?
        - [ ] JRG: If automatic, users should be able to override with `cache: false` or something.
    - [ ] WV: Last rattler-build release includes the latest draft of the `cache` feature, with cache-specific sources and workdir unpacking.
    - [ ] The rattler-build cache is immutable (it's regenerated for each output), which contrasts with conda-build's stateful global build directory. There was some discussion about the need for multi-stage caching or not (whether an output can modify the cache or not in a way that the following outputs see those changes). Consensus seems to be that single-stage is enough and we ever need multi-stage, we'll hear about it when we get there.
- [ ] (KZ) Should we publish contributor statistics?
    - Examples: Number of feedstocks maintained, number of PRs merged
    - JRG: In other ecosystems: https://napari.org/weather-report/.
    - JRG: conda-forge badges? Proxy data = number of teams user belongs to. https://github.com/orgs/conda-forge/teams?query=+members%3Ame
    - FF: Somebody did something similar at https://github.com/axiom-data-science/feedstockrot


### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [ ]

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
