---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2024-05-29'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2024-05-29

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Marcel Bargull          | MB       | mbargull         | Bioconda/cf                 |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Klaus Zimmermann        | KZ       | zklaus           | Quansight                   |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Dasha Gurova            | DG       | dashagurova      | Anaconda/conda              |
| Jaime RodrÃ­guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|Matthew Becker |MRB |beckermr |cf|

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [x] (HV) Deal with macOS system ABI issue ([break](https://github.com/conda-forge/libcxx-feedstock/pull/148)?), vs. if/how we ship libcxxabi.
    - We probably need to do more research/segfault analysis before we can determine next steps.
    - We should build an unpatched `libcxxabi` under a special label to help with debugging.
    - [ABI Laboratory](https://abi-laboratory.pro/) is fallow/dead, so might not be a big help.
    - Chrome will start requiring macOS >=11.0 in ~Oct.
    - Anaconda is in process to updating to 10.15.
- [x] (HV) CentOS 7 bump in [June](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1980)
    - stdlib infra should be ready; any remaining tasks?
    - Still a few clean up items; e.g., removing repodata hack.
    - Would be helpful to do all of these concurrently when we make the bump.
- [x] (KZ) tzdata? (https://github.com/conda-forge/tzdata-feedstock/issues/26)
    - (HV) Tangentially related: https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/issues/62 
- [x] (HV) How much of X11 should be build? https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/issues/26241
    - Core is not opposed in principle, but no feasible unless we:
        - Find >=2 committed maintainers
        - Understand what packages, use cases depend on these X ones
    - This does not not require a policy change.

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
