---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2024-09-18'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2024-09-18

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Bianca Henderson        | BH       | beeankha         | Anaconda                    |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/c-f                |
| Klaus Zimmermann        | KZ       | zklaus           | Quansight                   |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/c-f                |
| Lilly Winfree           | LW       | lwinfree         | Anaconda                    |
| Alison Hill             | AH       | apreshill        | Anaconda                    |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [x] (JK) AlmaLinux 8 / GLIBC 2.28 (handled below)
  - [x] CDTs
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/cdt-builds/issues/66
    - (HV) PR nearing completion for first batch: https://github.com/conda-forge/cdt-builds/pull/70
  - [x] Using images
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/6283
    - (HV) needs CDTs to work before we can switch; plus maybe a migration away from CDTs we're not porting to alma8.
- [x] (MRB) noarch changes
    - we're debating shifts to how we do noarch
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/2210
        - Consensus: announcement + migrator + lint + hint thing here.
        - CFEP needed?
        - Since this is a pretty major change, sounds like it.

### Your `__new__()` agenda items

- [ ] (FF) NumFOCUS 2024 summit updates
    - [ ] NF has an infrastructure and security committee now. Code of conduct committee coming up soon.
    - [ ] Ongoing conversation about whether splitting funds evenly or not.
    - [ ] NF Installation recommendations: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zfncPEtNgI86pm8AhJ50DCGSTexcEIuA6jUofy2yqvU/edit#heading=h.exik8qo8laee
        - [ ] Caution about support / security / liability implications of recommending conda-forge exclusively.
        - [ ] Action item: Mention the security model of conda-forge more prominently.
        - [ ] Set meeting up to discuss this thoroughly. Interested people:
            - [ ] Jaime
            - [ ] Axel
            - [ ] Lilly (to listen)
    - [ ] Leah stepping down. New leadership will be announced soon, Leah will ensure the transition will be smooth.
- [ ] (HV) Blog post about TOS situation?
    - [ ] Anaconda published https://www.anaconda.com/blog/update-on-anacondas-terms-of-service-for-academia-and-research
    - [ ] conda 24.9 will have some more features to deal with the 'implicit defaults' problem.
        - [ ] https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/14217
        - [ ] Might be a good moment to publish a community blog post somewhere
    - [ ] Future Minicondas will be explicit about `channels: [defaults]`
    - [ ] A channel registry as proposed by Wolf is probably part of the next steps
- [ ] (WV) Greetings from Reproducible Builds Summit
- [ ] (WV) What's left for recipe v1 upload
    - [ ] SHA256 discussion for version bumps
- [ ] (JRG) Trying to write an article about the history of conda-forge (and also early conda!)
    - [ ] https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/2298
- [ ] (HV) back to alma
    - [ ] HV: everybody onboard with the current developments?
    - [ ] IF: one more question but good to go otherwise.
    - [ ] HV: Images: newer images with old sysroots?
        - [ ] If we had that change today, feedstocks using old CDTs would break.
        - [ ] IF: Have names changed in yum-requirements?
        - [ ] HV: CDT Names are kept, even if we have fewer. 
        - [ ] IF: Yum packages might be different though? If they change images, their `yum-requirements.txt` might break if they are unlucky with the names.
        - [ ] JRG: Only after a rerender.
        - [ ] IF: Still, better to have a migrator help out.
        - [ ] HV: It would be a piggyback migrator
        - [ ] IF: It would be nice to have a proper one with the necessary skips

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (JK) CUDA 12 migration close out?
  - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/6263 (HV: already closed since this point was put on the agenda)
  - How to handle CUDA 12.x?
- [ ] (JK) (When would we like to) close Python 3.12 migration?
  - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/5892
- [ ] (JK) NumPy 2 (check-in)
  - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1997
- [ ] (JK) R 4.4 / UCRT (check-in)
  - https://github.com/conda-forge/r-base-feedstock/issues/325
- [ ] (JRG): Asking for feedback in this issue about CPU instructions, `-march` flags, etc
    - [ ] https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/2251

### CFEPs

- [ ]
