---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-07-09'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-07-09

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Uwe Korn                | UK       | xhochy           | QuantCo/cf                  |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev GmbH             |
| Jakov Smolić            | JS       | jsmolic          | Quansight                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [X] JS: Introduction, joined Quansight in June as a packaging engineer. Will be working on conda-forge among other things. Comes from embedded software background and Gentoo contributor.
- [X] JRG: conda-forge security audit report
- [X] WV: sigstore CEP accepted
    - Some funding left, might give it a try to prototype something on conda-forge
- [X] WV: conda-forge update at SciPy 2025
    - 10 year anniversary
    - Security audit but not mention it too much
    - archspec packages
    - Show multi-stakeholder 
- [X] JRG: New project board to raise visibility for Github issues that impact conda-forge: https://github.com/orgs/conda-forge/projects/6
- [X] WV: Big push to finish some rattler-build features in the coming months

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
