---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-01-08'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-01-08

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Schuyler Martin         | SM       | schuylermartin45 | Anaconda                    |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev                  |
| Eric Lundby             | EL       | ELundby45        | Anaconda                    |
| Daniel Petry            | DP       | danpetry         | Anaconda                    |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | conda-forge                 |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | conda-forge/quansight       |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

7 people total

### Standing items

- [DP] PyTorch recipe sync
    - Recent activity in the feedstock, helped by Michał Gorny.
    - How to manage contribution syncs between conda-forge and defaults?
    - Will PyTorch switch to rattler-build soon? This might complicate syncing with defaults. Is it costly to convert changes back to v0 or is that more in the realm of unfeasible?
        - WV: build scripts should just be copy-paste, but the meta.yaml is a bit different specially when it comes to split-outputs which might have subtle differences. Manageable but YMMV.
    - WV: (see notes in item below)
        - Multi-output like Pytorch would benefit a lot thanks to the improved performance.
        - Existing blockers: autotick-bot version bumping doesn't work yet but work is in progress, maybe even this week. This should unblock a few important feedstocks.
    - JK: Following feedstock updates closely. Seems like Michał is the one pushing for most changes and fixes. Some churn going on with which tests need to be enabled/disabled, but eager to see the fixes merged because it's taking a while to land those.
    - DP: Windows support needed for feature parity with the deprecated pytorch channel. EB has been working on it. Have access to beefy dev machines. How to run locally?
        - Yep, assuming a local Miniforge, then run `conda build -m .ci_support/<win_config.yaml> recipe`. You'll need the MSVC compilers already installed in the system.
        - Windows Docker image definitions available at https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/209 but not sure if they are up-to-date or even functional now.
- [DP] (relatedly) conda-forge rattler-build transition plans
    - [WV] 400+ packages are migrated (according to GH Search)
    - [WV] working on the autotick bot
    - WV: Anaconda's plans to switching?
        - DP: Internal discussion ongoing. DP pushing for it.
        - CHL: The goal is to align efforts but no timelines known yet.
        - WV: Any renewed efforts for conda-build?
        - CHL: No new information yet. Details to come after catching up after holiday break.
    - MvN: Internal experiments with rattler-build for arrow, working. Won't probably switch yet due to how low-level this dependency is and the potential for breakages. Maintainers tend to be risk-averse in these "important" packages. But it works!
    - JRG: conda-forge.zulipchat.com available for more chat-like conversations if that helps with iterations!
- [WV] sandboxing options in rattler-build
    - isolates network access in Unix via `--sandbox`; demo shows how `curl https://google.com` fails, but succeeds if `--allow-network` is also added (or no `--sandbox`)
    - it should also prevent writes to paths outside `$PREFIX`
    - once stable, could be applied in conda-forge to make builds more hermetic, along with path mangling; e.g. prevent access to Homebrew stuff.
    - MvN: Windows support?
        - WV: Not yet but know how to do it. Needs some extra engineering but should be feasible with a couple days worth of effort.
- [WV] adding menuinst to pixi (and autocompletion support)
    - https://github.com/conda/rattler/pull/840
    - https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi/issues/2366
        - Hoping to add CEP standard
- [WV] optional dependencies experiments in rattler
    - Implementation doesn't seem too complicated, the solver just does its job
- [DP]: Question about logging styles in rattler-build.
    - Using tracing crate, multiple outputs possible (fancy, plain, json). Easy to extend, happy to accept feedback.
    - MvN: it could even push to opentelemetry!

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [ ]

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
