---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-07-23'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-07-23

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Uwe Korn                | UK       | xhochy           | QuantCo, c-f                |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | carterbox        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Ryan Keith              | RSK      | ryanskeith       | Anaconda                    |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |

6 people total

### Standing items

- [X] UK: Python 3.13/3.14 Migration
    - 3.14rc now tagged, builds looking good.
    - Migration can start building Python 3.14 dependents, as soon as the RC is merged. Expected complexity: routine migration (low complexity).

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [X] Introductions round:
    - RSK: First time joining the conda-forge calls. Part of Anaconda for 3 years, now part of the conda open-source team. Will be around more now!

- [X] JK: Went to scipy. A lot of talks about LLMs. Some talks on CUDA libraries. Wolf and Ruben were also there. Joint Pixi tutorial with Matthew and Ruben, how to use it and apply it on ML workflows. 50 people supposed to attend, but had more in the end, so had to get some cloud credit in real time. Feedback was good.

- [X] JL: Went to EuroPython. Intense and amazing. Huge conference, comparable to PyCON US. Ran packaging summit with around 20 people, had to explain what conda is a number of times. A number of people knew Pixi! Met with some Prefix guys (Julian, Ruben), timely thanks to the Anaconda <> Prefix collaboration announcement. Interesting talks about community sustainability and how to find funding for open source. Recommended talk: Brett's keynote about lockfiles and other Python packaging efforts.

- [X] WV: Demo conditional dependencies prototype! With `<match spec>; if ...` syntax. Pip-like extras were also demo'ed. CEP @ https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/111.


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
