---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-02-05'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-02-05

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev                  |
| Dasha Gurova            | DG       | dashagurova      | Anaconda                    |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Klaus Zimmermann        | KZ       | zklaus           | Quansight                   |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda/cf                 |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [ ]
- [ ] (JK) CUDA 12.8 migration
  - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/issues/6980
- [ ] (WV) sigstore is deployed on prefix.dev
    - [ ] Talked with OpenSSF today
- [ ] (WV) CEP open for huge repodata overhaul
    - [ ] https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/111
- [ ] (WV) rattler-build update (types, lists, ..)
    - https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/110 
- [ ] (JK) Conda + Python 3.13
- [ ] Discussion about an in-person spri
 


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
