---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-03-19'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-03-19

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Daniel Ching            | DJC      | @carterbox       | cf / NVIDIA                 |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | @jaimergp        | Quansight                   |
| Marius van Niekerk      | MvN      | @mariusvniekerk  | cf / Voltron Data           |
| Uwe Korn                | UK       | @xhochy          | cf / QuantCo                |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | @wolfv           |                             |
| Isuru Fernando          | IF       | @isuruf          |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [X] IF: Vote for adding Daniel Nachun to staged-recipes ends in ~6 days
    - Only 13 votes yet. Need one more vote (quorum needs 27 * 0.5)
    - Go to Helios voting platform and log in with Github to see vote

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [X] WV: CVE mapping
    - Use PURLs?
    - JRG interested in adding PURLs to. See https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/114
    - MvN suggests identifying canonical sources
    - UK has been using automated scan tools to identify CVEs in Go packages
        - MvN: approach tricky for C/C++, probably better for Rust because they contain enough metadata
    - MvN Integrated command could be interested to launch the analysis upon env creation
        - UK: these analysis are costly though, in the order of minutes
        - UK: Run them on cronjobs on top of small number of known lockfiles
        - UK: These analysis lead to discovery of weird dependencies in the tree (terraform > openai > weights and biases)
    - UK expressed concerns about Dependabot and Github analysis creating noise with false positives
- [x] DJC: CI restart behavior has changed?
    - DJC Close and reopen PRs do not retrigger the CI.
    - IF no changes, just flaky Azure.
- [X] WV: Latest tinyxml release was ABI incompatible and broke a few packages. More tests?
    - DJC: ABI laboratory dead, but tools appear to have moved to the "Linux Hardware Project". Packaged in conda-forge now.
        - DJC: https://github.com/lvc/abi-dumper
    - WV: Could a tool run the ABILaboratory logic to detect ABI breakage across releases?
        - MvN: Create two envs with release and release-1 and diff the results?
        - DJC: Library has two methods available: compile with debug symbols, or binary+headers.
        - UK: Probably because they also show symbol renames, not just ABI incompatibilities. Might just work for us to run the ABI checks only.
    - IF: We should just pull tinyxml2 10.1 version, 11.0 is available
        - WV: Agreed for this particular problem
 - [X] WV: conda-forge 10th anniversary soon right?
    - JRG: Apr 11th. Let's do something fun about it! At the very least a blog post.



### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
