---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-12-10'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-12-10

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
| Klaus Zimmermann        | KZ       | zklaus           | Quansight                   |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Lilly Winfree           | LW       | lwinfree         | Anaconda                    |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | Quansight/cf                |
| Dasha Gurova            | DG       | dashagurova      | Anaconda                    |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your `__new__()` agenda items


- [X] (DJC) Tegra YAML migrator
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/7956
    - Looking for reviews after a few weeks. Main criticism: using `key_override` instead of `key_add`, which replaces the whole zipped keys set, which requires changes in the global pinning. Tried using `key_add` but couldn't make it work. Reason: tegra only needed in 12.9, but using key_add will also add it to 13.0. Due to a bug in conda-smithy, even a skip statement will not work (skip cuda 13 + tegra), it will show up in the feedstock render. 
    - JRG: Link to conda-smithy bug?
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1617
    - IF: The `key_add` migrator will do the job; it's just that the variant won't be skipped until runtime (an extra job will be spawned, but won't publish anything). Similar issue with tensorflow migrator.
    - DJC: I will open a new MR which uses `key_add` instead of `key_override`
- [X] (JRG) Last meeting of the year, we will reconvene in 2026 under a unified conda + conda-forge meeting scheme! Calendar invites will be updated and blog posts published in conda-forge.org and conda.org.
- [X] (LW & DG) Discussion about package data
    - (JRG) missing granular usage data - this helps decide things like deprecations & updates, and prioritize
        - Python version usage per package
        - Architecture per package
        - e.g. GLIBC usage tracking (equivalent for macOS and Windows)
        - e.g. Like these manylinux plots: https://mayeut.github.io/manylinux-timeline/ 
    - (JRG) User agent
        - More info about where the download occurred (for example CI downloads compared to non-CI)
        - Can users say who they are? For example could conda-forge add this info to its downloads to more easily segment this?
        - https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/issues/1018 
        - https://github.com/anaconda/anaconda-package-data/issues/64
        - Example strings at: https://github.com/anaconda/anaconda-package-data/issues/64#issuecomment-3516511486
    - (LW) Can we separate visualizations from API?
        - Anaconda can deliver API
        - Not every visualization. Users would need to build these
    - (LW) Would like to make Anaconda's infrastructure more transparent
        - (JRG) Add back documentation for Anaconda.org
        - (LW) Also working on fixing some wonky functionality (public & private package?)
    - (LW) Where to ask for feedback= Zulip?
        - JRG: Zulip and meetings
        - CHL: Add to agenda and claim "special session"
        - JRG: To add PRs so meeting notes are published earlier in the week
- [X] (LW) Short update on cloudflare infrastructure issues
    - There have been a few issues with Cloudflare
    - However these look like mysterious Cloudflare issues to outside users
    - Still trying to understand the Cloudflare issue
    - Please ping me when you see Cloudflare issues
    - (JRG) How frequent should status update alarms be?
        - Threshholds are ~40mins. Should these be more or less
    - (LW) How do you feel about that?
        - (JRG) Remember 1hr CDN syncs. Then this got faster ([2022 June minutes claimed 5-7 mins!](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/2022-06-29/#your-new-agenda-items)) and then degrade
    - (JK) Agree with Jaime
        - Would love to see quicker CDN sync
        - Also better APIs into visibility helps (thanks Lilly!)
        - Lastly would add post-mortem writeups would help when communicating with other stakeholders
    - (CHL) Would like to get rid of CDN syncs as a special case and make the system CDN-ready in general.
    - (JK) Would sharded repodata help with this?
        - CHL: Not sure.
    - (WV): Prefix.dev also uses Cloudflare (and was affected by the outages), but setup uses a different approach with no CDN sync delays. A 5+ min delay is unacceptable.
        - (JK) If this could be done, this would make it desirable for all channels and would take load off Anaconda.org.
        - (LW) We'll sync internally on my team to look into the infrastructure and look for improvements
- [X] (HV) Use RHEL 10 infrastructure from Rocky instead of Alma (for riscv support)
    - JRG: https://github.com/conda-forge/linux-sysroot-feedstock/pull/93
    - JRG: https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1744
    - JK: Does Rocky support RISCV and Alma doesn't?
        - Yes. https://rockylinux.org/news/rockylinux-support-for-riscv
    - IF: We probably don't need CDTs; would rather not build CDTs unless someone requests them. Death to CDTs.
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/cdt-builds/issues/89
        - JK: Skeptical that CDTs aren't used
            - IF: In almost all cases, there are CDT alternatives.
            - IF: We had a discussion about keeping PAM as a CDT, but now no one uses it.
            - JK: What about mesa?
                - IF: Since CentOS7, we now have non-CDT alternatives for those packages
        - JRG: We have already a linter which asks maintainers to migrate away from CDTs
- [X] KZ: Pending migrations with ghost "awaiting parents"? e.g. see pyside6 https://conda-forge.org/status/migration/?name=python314t
    - Looks like feedstock names and packages names are mixed at some point in the code base. Is that a bug? Can feedstock branches block a migration
    - IF: Yes, they can block. Was the PR opened for the branch?
    - KZ: Pyside2 still waiting for Python 3.14, python 3.14t not opened yet. Question is whether a feedstock should block or a package _name_ should block.
    - IF: May be ok to remove abi_migration_branches from pyisde2 and mark the migrations as done. There should be a syntax in the migration file to tell the bots to ignore a certain dependency (parent feedstock). Similar was done for matplotlib and qt for pypy.

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] (HV) Update on exports, self-exports and conditional dependencies
- [ ] (HV) CDTs versus security versus compatibility


### CFEPs

- [ ]
