---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-06-11'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-06-11

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Jannis Leidel           | JL       | jezdez           | Anaconda                    |
| Uwe Korn                | UK       | xhochy           | QuantCo                     |
| Lilly Winfree           | LW       | lwinfree         | Anaconda                    |
| Marius van Niekerk      | MvN      | mariusvniekerk   | InMarket                    |
| Dasha Gurova            | DG       | dashagurova      | Anaconda                    |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

X people total

### Standing items

- [x] LW: Introduction, PM on anaconda.org
    - Getting feedback from conda(-forge) people about features
    - Ping Lilly if you want to talk (or if you have issues) on Zulip or email lwinfree@anaconda.com
    - Will be publishing a public roadmap soon. Teasers: we're working on sharded repodata support, making the download/usage metrics accurate, fixing the API docs, creating a new + improved browse experience on the UI. Looking into OCI - Lilly wants to talk to more people to hear ideas.
- [x] UK: Update on supply chain security efforts
    - plan to do C(F)EPs on SBOMs, cargo-auditable, and a PR to syft to support conda metadata
    - Seth Larson may help us setup a CVE-numbering authority

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [ ]

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
