---
tags: [meeting-notes]
title: '2025-06-25'
---
# conda-forge core meeting 2025-06-25

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

- [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09)
- [What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=5pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://conda-forge.org/community/minutes/)

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra  |          |                  |           |
|  Lilly Winfree          |    LW    |   lwinfree        |   Anaconda              |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee        | Anaconda/cf                 |
| Wolf Vollprecht         | WV       | wolfv            | prefix.dev                  |
| John Kirkham            | JK       | jakirkham        | NVIDIA/cf                   |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |
|                         |          |                  |                             |

7 people total

### Standing items

- [ ]

### From previous meeting(s)

- [ ]

### Active votes

- [ ]

### Your __new__() agenda items

- [ ] JRG: 7A / OSTIF finished the security audit report. core: ping me if you want to take a look.
- [ ] LW: Your friendly anaconda.org PM here to share our new SLAs [link](https://forum.anaconda.com/t/improved-support-for-anaconda-org-community-issues/96083) & ask for feedback on .org usage
- [ ] WV: Demo rattler-build create-patch
    - [ ] Allows to create patch from work directory directly (e.g. when building in debug mode). Diffs against the source cache (no need for temporary git repo). Still doesn't account for existing patches or multiple sources, but work is in progress! Feature available in latest release (consider it a prototype).
    - [ ] Conversation about fuzzy patches with `patch` or `git apply`. Reimplemented the apply logic in Rust, based on `diffy`.
- [ ] WV: sigstore CEP open for voting (conda governance team) {%preview https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/112 %}
    - [ ] Deadline: July 2nd.
- [ ] WV: Perceiving lower engagement in the conda ecosystem, specially in the steering/core teams. Proposing "Packaging Academy" to start accumulating the knowledge we have amassed over the years. e.g. guides to build a Rust package, and a Python package, and C++ package. Also streaming debugging sessions.
    - [ ] Use conda-forge funds to hire a technical writer?
    - [ ] Tania preparing CFEP to set procedure for financial.
        - [ ] Some precedents in 2018-2019, using a majority vote (regular, public vote).
    - [ ] Reminder: `fundable` label for issues: https://github.com/search?type=issues&q=org%3Aconda-forge+label%3Afundable

### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]

### CFEPs

- [ ]
