---
authors:
  - cj-wright
tags: [autotick-bot]
---

# Automatically Deployed ABI Migrations

Handling application binary interface (ABI) migrations has always been a
hassle for Conda-Forge. Maintaining ABI consistency helps enable the
"just use conda-forge" experience for many of our users, making
certain that numpy's blas is the same as scipy's. As libraries update
their code, the new versions may be ABI incompatible, as function
signatures and other symbols may have changed, leading to the dreaded
`SegmentationFault` and other errors.

<!--truncate-->

Conda-Forge handles this by having a pinning file that tracks all the
currently supported ABIs. These pinned ABIs are then used to build the
downstream packages, making certain that all are consistent. As new
versions of pinned software are released the pins are updated, causing a
migration of the pin, and the rebuilding of all packages which rely on
the pinned package. In the past, this was handled by a change to the
global pinnings and a subsequent migration via the auto-tick bot. While
this worked, there were issues that this created. Firstly, this approach
could cause unsatisfiable build dependencies for new packages, as some
of the new package's dependencies had been compiled with the new pins,
but not all. Secondly, migrations happened in series, if a second pin
was moved while the first was being migrated then the migration could go
wrong as packages which were being rebuilt for the first pin got the
second pin before they were ready.

Conda-Forge Core has recently approved CFEP-9, a migration policy to fix
these issues. With CFEP-9 pinnings are proposed as small yaml snippets
which contain the new pins. The auto-tick bot then starts migrating the
packages in order, applying the yaml snippet to each package in turn. If
a second pinning change is issued then the bot starts the migration for
that package too, enabling the two migrations to work independently. If
a package needs a change in both pins then the maintainers can choose
the order in which they apply the pins by merging one pin before the
other.

This approach will yield much greater stability in migrations and will
enable more maintainers to issue migrations. Migrations can be issued by
putting a PR into
[conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock),
adding a file to the `migrations` folder, PRs into the auto-tick bot are
not needed anymore.
