---
authors:
  - isuruf
tags: [conda-forge]
---

# macOS ARM builds on conda-forge

A new platform `osx-arm64` has been added to the build matrix of
conda-forge. `osx-arm64` packages are built to run on upcoming macOS
arm64 processors marketed as `Apple Silicon`. An installer for this
platform can be found
[here](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-MacOSX-arm64.sh).

<!--truncate-->

This will install a conda environment with python and conda in it.
Installed conda will be able to install packages like `numpy, scipy`.
Currently there are about 100 packages out of 10000 packages pre-built
for this platform.

All these packages are built on conda-forge's current macOS `x86_64`
infrastructure. In order to do so, we have made lots of changes to the
infrastructure including,
`conda, conda-build, conda-smithy, constructor, conda-forge-ci-setup` to
facilitate cross-compiling which is the process of compiling a package
that will run on a `host` platform (`osx-arm64` in our case), with the
compilation done on a `build` platform (`osx-64` or `linux-64` in our
case).

`osx-arm64` is the first conda platform that is completely bootstrapped
using conda-build's cross-compiling facility. Previously, when adding a
new platform, conda-build was built with an existing python and pip
environment on the new platform. With cross-compiling, when the
compilers and a sysroot is set up on a different platform, an existing
conda-build installation (on `osx-64` and `linux-64` in this case) will
be able to start building packages right away.

## Cross-compiling builds for `osx-arm64`

In order to cross compile packages for `osx-arm64` we need compilers.
So, we first built `clang=11.0.0.rc1` which has support for targetting
`osx-arm64`. We also built `compiler-rt=11.0.0.rc1` as a universal build
support both `osx-64` and `osx-arm64`.

Linker, archiver, `otool`, `install_name_tool` was built using the
[cctools-port project](https://github.com/tpoechtrager/cctools-port) by
Thomas Pöchtrager.

One issue we ran into was that the macOS 11.0 Big Sur Beta 7 required
that all executables and shared libraries be ad-hoc signed which is
signing without a verified signature. On suggestion of `cctools-port`
developer we added support to `cctools-port` to sign these executables
using `ldid` which can be used on Linux as well as macOS to sign.

Using these, the first cross compiled package we built was `libcxx` to
facilitate C++ builds. For the `osx-arm64` sysroot we used the
`MacOSX11.0.sdk` already installed on Azure pipelines and Travis-CI. Due
to licensing issues, we cannot distribute this, but it can be downloaded
from the Apple developer website even on Linux.

With clang we have a C/C++ compiler, but lack a Fortran compiler. We
used the [GCC fork for
darwin-arm64](https://github.com/iains/gcc-darwin-arm64). First, a cross
compiler (`build == host != target`) was built. Using that compiler, we
built a `cross-native` compiler (`build != host == target`) which gave
use the shared libraries like `libgfortran.dylib`.

We also added support for cross compiling rust programs to the rust
packages in conda and installing `rust_osx-64` on Linux will give you a
compiler that will build packages for `osx-64`.

As we haven't done cross-compilation before, many packages needed to be
updated. Most were trivial changes that we automated later on. These
included getting a newer `config.sub` to identify the new autotools
platform `arm64-apple-darwin20.0.0`, adding options to CMake with the
environment variable `CMAKE_ARGS` to correctly set up the toolchain and
recipes were update to use `cmake ${CMAKE_ARGS} ..`. Running tests when
building were also disabled by guarding commands like `make check`,
`make test`, `ctest` with the env variable
`CONDA_BUILD_CROSS_COMPILATION`.

Cross-compiling python extensions is quite tricky as `distutils` is not
really setup to do this. Thanks to the project
[crossenv](https://github.com/benfogle/crossenv) this is unofficially
supported with a few quirks. With `crossenv`, we can run a python on the
build machine (`osx-64` or `linux-64` in this case) that acts like it is
on `osx-arm64`. `crossenv` monkey-patches a few functions like
`os.uname` and sets up values like `_PYTHON_SYSCONFIG_DATA` to make
python running on `osx-64` or `linux-64` behave like `osx-arm64`. One
issue is that, monkey-patching `sys.platform` doesn't work and
therefore if a python package in it's `setup.py` uses `sys.platform` to
differentiate OSes this will lead to unintended consequences if you are
cross-compiling from `linux-64`. Therefore, we have to use `osx-64` as
our `build` system when cross-compiling for `osx-arm64`. Note that
packages using `sysconfig.get_platform()` will get the correct platform.

For creating an installer for conda, we needed a standalone conda
executable to bootstrap the conda environment. For other platforms we
relied on `conda-standalone` which is a standalone conda executable
created using `pyinstaller`. Since `pyinstaller` does not support
cross-compile, we decided to use `micromamba` as the bootstrapper and
added features to `micromamba` so that it can function as the
bootstrapper.

## How to add a `osx-arm64` build to a feedstock

All the below changes will be done by a bot and the packages the bot
will send PRs to is determined by the list of packages at
[conda-forge-pinning](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/blob/master/recipe/migrations/osx_arm64.txt)
and their dependences. If you would like to add support, please send a
PR adding the feedstock name to the above list. After that PR is merged,
you can monitor the status at [conda-forge
status-page](https://conda-forge.org/status/#armosxaddition) and if a
particular PR is stalled you can send a PR to the feedstock to fix it.

Following instructions are for when you want to add support manually.

Add the following to `conda-forge.yml` (on Linux or OSX),

```yaml
build_platform:
  osx_arm64: osx_64
test: native_and_emulated
```

You can rerender using,

```bash
conda smithy rerender
```

For python packages, add one or more of the following to
`recipe/meta.yaml` as needed, noting that you *must* only add
`numpy`, `cython`, and/or `pybind11`
if they are used in `host:` as well,

```yaml
requirements:
  build:
    - python                                 # [build_platform != target_platform]
    - cross-python_{{ target_platform }}     # [build_platform != target_platform]
    - cython                                 # [build_platform != target_platform]
    - numpy                                  # [build_platform != target_platform]
    - pybind11                               # [build_platform != target_platform]
```

For autotools package, add the following to `recipe/meta.yaml`,

```yaml
requirements:
  build:
    - gnuconfig   # [unix]
```

and to `recipe/build.sh`,

```bash
# Get an updated config.sub and config.guess
cp $BUILD_PREFIX/share/gnuconfig/config.* .
```

For cmake packages, add the following to `recipe/build.sh`,

```bash
cmake ${CMAKE_ARGS} ..
```

For `meson` packages, add the following to `recipe/build.sh`,

```bash
meson ${MESON_ARGS} builddir/
```

:::note
Conda automatically creates a [cross build definition
file](https://mesonbuild.com/Cross-compilation.html) when
cross-compiling, and adds the necessary argument to `${MESON_ARGS}` to
point `meson` to that file. `${MESON_ARGS}` is only defined when
cross-compiling, not for normal builds.
:::

For rust packages, add the following to `recipe/meta.yaml`,

```bash
requirements:
  build:
    - {{ compiler('rust') }}
```

If there's a line like `make check` in `recipe/build.sh` that cannot be
run when cross-compiling, do the following,

```bash
if [[ "$CONDA_BUILD_CROSS_COMPILATION" != "1" ]]; then
  make check
fi
```

After these changes, another rerendering might be required.

Some useful jinja variables,

1.  `build_platform` - conda subdir for `BUILD_PREFIX`. eg:
    `linux-64`
2.  `target_platform` - conda subdir for `PREFIX`. eg: `osx-arm64`

Some useful environment variables,

1.  `build_platform`
2.  `target_platform`
3.  `CONDA_BUILD_CROSS_COMPILATION` - 1 if cross compiling
4.  `CMAKE_ARGS` - arguments to pass to cmake
5.  `CC_FOR_BUILD` - C compiler for build platform
6.  `CXX_FOR_BUILD` - C++ compiler for build platform
7.  `HOST` - a triplet for host passed to autoconf. eg:
    `arm64-apple-darwin20.0.0`
8.  `BUILD` - a triplet for build passed to autoconf. eg:
    `x86_64-conda-linux-gnu`

Some useful configure options in `conda-forge.yml`

1.  `build_platform` - a dictionary mapping `build` subdir to `host` subdir. eg:

    ```yaml
    build_platform:
      osx_arm64: osx_64
      linux_ppc64le: linux_64
      linux_aarch64: linux_64
    ```

2.  `test_on_native_only` - a boolean to turn off testing on cross
    compiling. If the tests don't require emulation (for eg: check
    that a file exists), then `test_on_native_only: false` will run
    the tests even when cross compiling.

## Building locally

For building locally add the following in
`$HOME/conda_build_config.yaml`.

```yaml
SDKROOT:
  - /path/to/MacOSX11.0.sdk
```

After that, look for the config you want to run in `.ci_support` folder
in the root of the feedstock For eg: `.ci_support/osx_arm64_.yaml`. Then
run,

```bash
conda build recipe -m .ci_support/osx_arm64_.yaml -c conda-forge -c conda-forge/label/rust_dev
```

This should start a new build for `osx-arm64`.

## Testing packages

In order to test packages intended to run on future Apple Silicon
hardware, Apple provides a machine called Developer Transition Kit
(DTK). Jonathan Helmus and Eli Rykoff has helped with testing these
packages on DTKs. Thanks to Eli Rykoff, we are now running tests for
these packages as a daily cron job which has led to finding several bugs
in our cross compiling infrastructure and also bugs in our recipes.

To test cross compiled recipes, transfer the built conda package to the
`host` and run,

```bash
conda build --test /path/to/package -c conda-forge
```

This work would not have been possible without the help of many people
including the upstream maintainers of compiler infrastructure (which
includes conda, conda-build, cctools, tapi, cctools-port, ldid, llvm,
clang, compiler-rt, openmp, libcxx, crossenv, rust, gcc-darwin-arm64),
`conda-forge/help-osx-arm64` team including Matt Becker, Eli Rykoff and
Uwe Korn who sent PRs to fix recipes, `conda-forge/bot` team and also
all the conda-forge maintainers of the 100 feedstocks who reviewed and
fixed PRs.

Isuru Fernando
