---
authors:
  - cj-wright
tags: [conda-forge]
---

# Conda-Forge Operational Risk

Recently I've been thinking about operational risk (op. risk).
Operational risks arise from failures of processes, for instance a
missing email, or an automated software system not running properly.
Many commercial institutions are interested in minimizing op. risk,
since it is risk that produces no value, as opposed to risks associated
with investing. This is also something I think about in my job at
[Lab49](https://www.lab49.com/), where I'm a software engineering
consultant focusing on financial institutions. I think there is also a
good analogy for Conda-Forge, even though we are not a commercial
outfit. In this case the risk we incur isn't the potential for lost
earnings but frustration for our users and maintainers in the form of
bugs and lackluster user experience. In this post I explore three main
sources of operational risk for Conda-Forge: Automation, Top-Down
Control, and Self-Service Structure.

<!--truncate-->

## A brief conda-forge primer

Conda-Forge is an ecosystem and community that grew around building
packages for the conda package manager. Conda-Forge uses continuous
integration services to build packages from GitHub repos called
feedstocks. This structure enables teams of contributors to maintain
packages via a pull request based workflow. At time of writing
Conda-Forge has over 10000 feedstocks and ships more than 120 million
packages a month.

## Self-Service Structure

Conda-Forge is built around a self-service structure for each stage in a
feedstock's lifecyle. The creation of new feedstocks relies on would be
maintainers to submit PRs to staged-recipes. Although language specific
help teams and staged-recipes reviewers provide some assistance and
oversight, the PR submitter plays the most important role in proposing
the package and shepherding it to acceptance. Once the feedstock is
accepted the maintenance is federated with most upkeep being performed
by the maintainers, who have extensive permissions and control over the
feedstock. If fixes or updates are needed for a package, maintainers and
users are encouraged to open their own pull requests.

This structure can present a few challenges for minimizing op. risk. The
most important challenge is the disconnect between feedstock maintainers
and users. While most maintainers are package users, most of our users
are not maintainers, and are unlikely to become maintainers. The
disparity between maintainers and users can come from a few sources,
some under our control and others not. For instance we can write better
documentation, lowering the barrier to entry, but we don't have control
over how our user's incentive structures value Conda-Forge
contributions. This produces a gap in representation in the Conda-Forge
organizational structure, where non-maintainer users' issues and
desires are not communicated to maintainers and Core.

For instance, are we servicing the needs of developers using our
binaries as dependencies to code they are compiling locally. As another
example, are there support gaps for developers and scientists using
Conda-Forge in academic and government laboratories, who might not have
the skills or capacity to fix feedstocks. Our reliance on the public
GitHub platform may prevent some users without access from raising their
concerns. Since these users may be under-represented we don't even know
if we are meeting their needs and how best to help.

## Top-Down Control

While the majority of Conda-Forge's permissions structure is federated,
certain important parts are centralized, with the Core developers making
key decisions. Often these decisions are focused on stability of the
ecosystem, for instance what versions of languages to support.
Additionally, maintenance and enhancements to the Conda-Forge
infrastructure are mostly performed by Core developers.

However, the Core developers are usually experienced feedstock
maintainers, expert conda users, and have bought into the Conda-Forge
ecosystem and mission. This means that decisions can be made without the
perspective of new users or maintainers, or from potential users that
are skeptical of the Conda-Forge approach.

For instance, decisions about application binary interface pins are
usually made by core, although these changes have impacts on downstream
maintainers. It is possible that most maintainers don't know about what
these pins are, how they are changed and how that affects their
feedstocks.

## Automation

Automation has been used to great effect to make Conda-Forge possible.
The various bots and web services enable Conda-Forge's current scale,
providing help and support from running builds, bumping versions, and
checking feedstock quality. However, this automation presents its own
operational risks and magnifies existing operational risks.

Automation has a tendency to fail when we least expect it and often we
lack the ability to fix it. The January 2018 Travis-CI outage is a great
example of this, where the CI service we were using for macOS builds
experienced reduced capacity and then a complete outage, causing builds
to queue for days. Recently there was a sudden decrease in the number of
parallel builds on Azure causing a similar queue of builds. Automation
can cause issues by enabling users to make decisions without all the
needed information. While many feedstocks have effective smoke tests for
their packages the autotick bot doesn't currently check for new
dependencies, potentially leading to missing or incorrect package
metadata.

## Conclusion

Overall Conda-Forge has managed its operational risk well. Most
importantly Conda-Forge's transparent open source nature allows us to
address these issues head on by engaging with the community.
