---
authors:
  - isuruf
tags: [infrastructure]
---

# PyPy builds on conda-forge

conda-forge now supports PyPy3.6 as the python interpreter in a conda
environment

Supported platforms are,

> - Linux-x86_64 (glibc 2.12 or newer)
> - OSX-x86_64 (OSX 10.9 or newer)
> - Linux-aarch64 (glibc 2.17 or newer)
> - Linux-ppc64le (glibc 2.17 or newer)

<!--truncate-->

## How to use PyPy

To use the PyPy builds you can do the following,

```bash
conda config --set channel_priority strict
conda create -n pypy pypy
conda activate pypy
```

If you don't have a conda installation already, you can use
[miniforge-pypy3](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge-pypy3)
which gives you a conda installation powered by pypy itself.

However as of the writing of this post, not many conda packages can be
installed into this environment, but noarch packages which do not depend
on the python version nor the interpreter can be installed. For eg,
mpmath is a noarch package without any dependencies.

```bash
conda install mpmath    # succeeds
conda install numpy     # fails as of March 10, 2020
```

**UPDATE**: numpy and scipy builds are working as of April 10, 2020.

All python C extensions needs to be rebuilt for the PyPy ABI. This is
currently on the way and can be tracked at the [status
page](https://conda-forge.org/status).

## python_abi Package

As part of adding support for PyPy and to keep the older python builds
working, a python_abi package was added. This defines the abi for the
python package and any non-noarch python packages will have a dependency
on this package. Older python downstream packages like numpy had their
metadata patched to add a CPython ABI. You can ask for a specific python
ABI.

```bash
conda install "python_abi=*=*_cp27mu"
```

If you are using python packages from packages other than defaults, you
will be able to install python extensions built with CPython ABI into
PyPy builds as their metadata have not been patched. Solution in this
case is to hotfix the metadata which is available to only high volume
conda channel or to rebuild those packages with the new python packages
and mark the older ones as broken.

Using the newer packages will rerender the following requirement to add
a dependency on python_abi. For eg,

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    - python 3.6
  run:
    - python
```

is rendered as,

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    - python 3.6.10 h9d8adfe_1009_cpython
  run:
    - python >=3.6,<3.7.0a0
    - python_abi 3.6 *_cp36m
```

whereas,

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    - python 3.6 *_73_pypy
  run:
    - python
```

is rendered as,

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    - python 3.6.9 0_73_pypy
  run:
    - python >=3.6,<3.7.0a0
    - python_abi 3.6 *_pypy36_pp73
```

Note that the PyPy ABI tag has `pp73` at the end which
indicates that the ABI is stable only for PyPy3.6 7.3.x series.

This opens up the possibility of adding debug builds of python and
building extension packages using the Python Debug ABI.

Discussion on the PyPy builds can be found in the issue
[conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io#867](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/867).
