---
authors:
  - ocefpaf
tags: [autotick-bot, gsoc]
---

# Google Summer of Code 2020 improved automatic maintenance of `conda-forge`

The `conda-forge` "autotick" bot is a crucial part of `conda-forge`'s
infrastructure. It enables automatic maintenance of `conda-forge`
packages by pushing version updates to the underlying software and
enabling large migrations of packages from one dependency to another
(e.g., Python 3.7 to Python 3.8). As `conda-forg` grows in size, with
over 9,000 packages to date, automatic maintenance of the `conda-forge`
ecosystem will become even more important.

<!--truncate-->

We here at `conda-forge` have a large number of potential Google Sumer
of Code projects around maintenance and development of the autotick bot
infrastructure. These projects are high-impact, affecting the entire
`conda-forge` ecosystem. They also cover multiple systems including
databases, `conda`'s CDN provider, continuous integration providers,
and user interactions on GitHub.

Want to be a part of the team? Great! Take a look at the projects below
and get in touch with us on GitHub! You can check the [GSoC
label](https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/labels/GSOC) for a
detailed listing of the issues that need work.

1.  Maintenance and Refactoring

    We have a large backlog of maintenance and refactoring issues that
    are great for people with a range of experience from beginners to
    true code ninjas.

    - Integration Testing for the Autotick Bot

      > Run true integration testing on a copy of the graph to better
      > test code changes and improve our CI process.
      >
      > **Issue**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/261>
      >
      > **Experience Level**: advanced

    - Work on the "code hardening"
      [Milestone](https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/milestone/4)

      Address any of the issues in the milestone above related to code
      refactoring and cleanup.

      **Issues**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/milestone/4>

      **Experience Level**: beginner to advanced

2.  Automated PRs for Globally Pinned Packages

    `conda-forge` maintains a list of globally pinned packages. These
    are typically dependencies whose version needs to be the same across
    all of `conda-forge` (e.g., the compiler versions or packages like
    `HDF5`). While we have infrastructure to run a migration of the
    downstream packages from a given pinned package, we do not have
    automated infrastructure to propose the migration of the pin itself.
    The project here is to add this functionality to our infrastructure.

    **Issue**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/665>

    **Experience Level**: advanced

3.  Check the `conda` CDN for Updated Packages before Issuing PRs in a
    Migration

    `conda` relies on a CDN provider to serve the index of available
    packages. There is a moderate ~30 minute delay between when a
    package is uploaded to `anaconda.org` and when it will appear in the
    `conda` index. We currently do not take this delay into account when
    issuing PRs in a migration.

    **Issue**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/595>

    **Experience Level**: beginner

4.  Finish Migrations with PR into the `conda-forge` Pinnings File

    Right now, when the migration of say package `ABC` to version `X`
    from version `Y` is done, we do not automatically merge the change
    in the globally pinned value of `ABC` into our listing of global
    pinnings. We should be issuing a PR to the pinnings file once we
    have determined that a suitable fraction of the packages effected by
    a migration have been properly rebuilt.

    **Issue**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/595>

    **Experience Level**: moderate

5.  Fully Render `conda` Packages in order to Determine Migration
    Dependencies

    Determining the dependencies of a given package is actually a
    computation expensive task due to the way `conda` recipes are
    structured and parametrized through the use of `Jinja2` and
    `conda-build-config.yaml` files. Currently, the autotick bot
    examines the static metadata in the `meta.yaml` file and not the
    fully rendered metadata. For this reason, we sometimes miss
    dependencies of a given package that need to be migrated first.
    Addressing this issue involves both calling the rendering process
    and also scaling that process to the entire set of `conda-forge`
    packages.

    **Issue**: <https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/664>

    **Experience Level**: moderate
