---
authors:
  - isuruf
tags: [infrastructure]
---

# Python 3.13 Release candidate builds on conda-forge

conda-forge now supports Python 3.13 release candidates on conda.
You can create a new environment with Python 3.13 by running the
command:

    conda create -n py313 python=3.13 -c conda-forge/label/python_rc -c conda-forge

<!-- truncate -->

This will create a new environment with Python 3.13 with the global
interpreter lock (GIL) enabled. A migration is underway that builds
Python extensions like those included in `numpy` and `scipy` as conda packages. The migration
is 50% complete at the time of writing. Once the first final release of
`python` 3.13 is available the `python_rc` label will not be needed
anymore.

New in this Python release is the `python-freethreading` build which
removes the GIL and enables free threading. To install a `freethreading`
build, you can do:

    conda create -n py313 python=3.13 python-freethreading -c conda-forge/label/python_rc -c conda-forge

Analogous to this package we also have a metapackage to explicitly
install the GIL variant:

    conda create -n py313 python=3.13 cpython-gil -c conda-forge/label/python_rc -c conda-forge

Note that there are no conda packages for freethreading Python extensions yet and
we hope to start a migration for freethreading extensions in the
coming weeks. Till then, you should use pip to install a package
unless the package and all its Python dependencies are `noarch` in which
case conda installing the package will work.

Another new feature of this release is the experimental just-in-time
(JIT) compiler included in the Python interpreter. This interpreter is
experimental, but can be used by setting the environment variable

    export PYTHON_JIT=1

You can also use the convenience conda package to set this environment
variable for you:

    conda install python-jit

Note that the JIT is available only for `x86_64` builds of python in
conda.

You can also use debug builds of Python on conda-forge for non-Windows
systems by using the `conda-forge/label/python_debug` label.

Any issues with python itself can be opened at [`python-feedstock`](https://github.com/conda-forge/python-feedstock).

