# 2018-05-01 conda-forge meeting

- Zoom instructions: [+How to connect to zoom](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/How-to-connect-to-zoom-odl94oveHyiRv6UqTtZE5) 


- Michael Sarahan to document and give demo on how to transition old recipes to new style
        - https://github.com/conda-forge/AnacondaRecipesSync
        - 5/1: Will wait for more people on the dev call before Mike talks about this
- Build packages on C3I and upload to conda-forge
    - Make is missing from the base image for PowerPC internal to Anaconda. Fun times!
    - Mike is open to other people helping with this.  If interested, reach out!  Helping means trying recipes, debugging any issues, and resolving any merge conflicts that have happened since Mike pulled them in last.  Moving target.
----------
- Adding people to cf/staged-recipes
    - Igor T. Ghisi (igortg) was also interested in helping
- Adding people to core
        - ~~Bjorn (Filipe will invite)~~ Done.
        - Marcel Bargull, @mbargull has been a very involved conda contributor and may be interested.
- Making the agenda and notes public again.
    - John will see if we can make dropbox paper readable by the world
    - other options are to just post the notes somewhere public after the meeting
- Governance, CoD, and NumFOCUS affiliation.
    - numfocus affiliation: https://github.com/numfocus/projects-director/blob/master/projects/Matplotlib.md
    - Scopatz said he was interested in pushing this forward :)
- conda-forge blog
- Video conferencing solution?
    - We’ll loose Eric’s zoom. The options are:
        - go back to google hangouts
        - use webex
- discuss numpy pinning (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/44)
    - Merged!
    - Michael working on different scheme.  numpy-base has all files.  numpy is metapackage that implies only python API usage.  numpy-devel is metapackage that implies C API linkage, and imposes run_exports

