# 2020-03-04 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

* (ericdill) cfep-12
    * Need more conversation about moving to broken vs deleting
    * what does the license ID field mean?
    * had a long discussion at numfocus summit. we decided to not consult a lawyer. If someone asks us to remove the package then we have to, but if they dont they we are good as we are. We _can_ consult a lawyer and figure out if this is ok
    * broken is not removal, but removing harms reproducibility
    * deleting the package is the safe approach without consulting a lawyer
    * 
* (ericdill) cfep-13
* (filipe) NumFOCUS point of contact person
    * Filipe to send out email/gitter to the conda-forge core team.

* (marcel) quorum / timeout thing for votes

### Your agenda items

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

* (Matt B.) Some FYIs: 
   - moved rerendering to github actions, seems to have broken issue commands - fixing today
   - we now have an admin migration bot for moving non-autotick bot maintenance tasks (admin-migrations repo)
   - automerge via labels is now working on every feedstock
       - blog post on this?

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11

* [cfep-13](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/24) Secure Package Uploads
    * this one is VITAL for securing our infrastructure - right now anyone in conda-forge can push a build 
      of python or a compiler or numpy etc.
    * please take some time to vote quickly so we can fix this before something bad happens
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11


## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### Last meeting
* Remove conda forge readthedocs.
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954



### 2 meetings ago
* Open up a CFEP about what to do about Python 2.7.
    * [cfep issue #20](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/issues/20)
    * [ ] Someone volunteer to drive this CFEP to completion
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support.
* [x] (Eric) Change meeting cadence
    * We're not going to change the meeting cadence. Too much momentum for us on this every-other-wednesday schedule.

### 3 meetings ago
* [x] cfep-11 next steps: Merge PR and ping staged-recipes team they can implement if they want?
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot

### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.

