# 2020-07-08 conda-forge core meeting


## Attendees

* Jonathan Helmus
* Marius van Niekerk
* Filipe Fernandes
* Matthew Becker
* Keith Kraus
* CJ Wright
* Cheng Lee
* Wolf Vollprecht
* Eric Dill
* Uwe Korn
* Marcel Bargull
* Anthony Scopatz
* John Kirkham
* Isuru Fernando
* Lori Burns
* Marcelo Trevisani

## Agenda

### Your agenda items

* [x] (CJ) budget, also finance subteam creation
  * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1093
* [x] intros for new folks on the call
* [x] (FF) Open Force Field request to NumFOCUS
    * Likely looking to engage in a contract relationship, Anthony interested
    * We could create a list of "suggested" companies/persons who do this type of work
    * Where should we land this information on the website?
        * conda-forge.org/commercial
        * conda-forge.org/
* [x] (FF) Should we do Outreachy as part of an effort to support diversity in tech? Advantages are low cost
      and high impact. Disadvantages are the time effort from the mentors.

* [x] (ED) Did we need to document anything from the CUDA 11 stuff that Keith brought up last time? No.
    * [x] (KK) CUDA 11 support
        - CUDA 11 dropped CentOS 6 support
        - ties into CentOS 7 migration above
        - `cudatoolkit` 11 - https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7
            - Make sure we have a glibc run constrain line
        TODO: Jonathan will review this PR
        - Add Docker image (need to double check how `FROM` can be adjusted conditionally)
            - Needs a recent docker version but this should work
              ```
              ARG IMAGE=ubuntu:latest
              FROM ${IMAGE}
              ```

* [x] (KK) CUDA Toolkit in conda-forge update
    * With a few changes to the recipe conda-forge will be able to build+distribute cudatoolkit
    * TODO: Eric will get the NVBug link from Keith and archive it in the conda-forge google drive.
    * TODO: John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
    * TODO: Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)

* [x] (IF) strict channel priority
    - Needed for PyPy
    - Needed for Cos7
    - Remove packages that we don't fully support. For eg: there are 3 builds of scipy on windows.
    - Older versions of tensorflow?
    - Could make strict a option in conda_forge.yaml

* [x] Discussion of "hard to build packages"
    * rstudio (redist may be somewhat sketchy?)
    * tensorflow
    * qt
    * scipy on Windows
    * Should we publish a list and ask for help on those?

* [x] (UK) CFEP-18, please vote
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/34
    - voting passed!

* [x] (UK) Voting Fatigue
    - discussed various alternatives
    - sub-teams

* [ ] (UK) "GPL-free" variants
    - Some packages like Python, sqlite have a dependency on libreadline which is GPL licensed.
      There might be arguments that this doesn't trickle up the stack but Corporate Compliance/IT have a different stance on that.
    - Similar issues with other packages where the GPL-dependency is quite often an optional one.
    - We probably want to have that functionality enabled by default but provide an alternative variant without GPL dependencies.

* [ ] (CL) msys2 packages
    - Anaconda deciding on update plans for "defaults" channel

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

* [x] (CJ) Status of openjdk, r-java stalled out

##### Stuff from last week that we didn't get to

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

* [ ] still need to finish CFEP-13 (can move ahead now that latest smithy is out)

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt

## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
* [ ] Eric will get the NVBug link from Keith and archive it in the conda-forge google drive.
* [ ] Eric to add a new page to our docs around how to engage with conda-forge and affiliated in a commercial relationship.
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

### Last meeting

### 2 meetings ago

### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (ED) Add conda-forge page about commercial engagements
    * Create a list of "suggested" companies/persons who do external companies
      can engage with for custom work
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18

### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
