# 2020-05-27 conda-forge core meeting


## Attendees


## Agenda

### Your agenda items
* [x] (all) intros for new people on the line?
    * Marcelo!
* [x] (CJ) standing budget item
* [ ] (CJ) institutional partners metadata (https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1028)
* [ ] (ED) Should we just merge in the cfep PRs with the status of "deferred" since there's zero action on any of them?
* [x] (MRB) change how we mark packages as broken
    * currently we move packages to broken and remove them from main
        * this means users cannot recreate old envs where a package was marked as broken
    * new system would leave packages on main (only add broken label) and then remove them
      via the removals section of the repo data patches
        * this is how defaults does it
    * do we need to announce this before switching? should we switch?
    * side effects are that this procedure leaves the repodata in weird states
        * the only source of truth is the one on the CDN (any other source is wrong)
        * packages can have different looking requirements between broken and main labels even on the CDN
    * matching defaults is probably more important than the things above
    * TODO:
        * [ ] document how users are supposed to interpret broken label
        * [ ] update how we, as core, are supposed to mark packages as broken
        * [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge

* [x] (CJ) I'd like to form a finance subteam, if you are interested in serving please let me know.
    * numfocus point of contact
    * responsible for letting core know where we stand financially
    * pending financial matters
    * acting as final approvers

* [x] (JJH) Should tk require freetype and X11? https://github.com/conda-forge/tk-feedstock/pull/40
    * Fonts will look nicer in TK applications
    * Introduces new requirements (and download/disk space) to Python
        * fontconfig: 300kb, freetype: 1mb
        * some additional packages needed as well
    * Recommendation is to create two variants, with and without "nice fonts"

* [x] (IF) Making a linux-anvil-ppc64le package and distributing cudatoolkit in the docker image
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/113
    * There's no `defaults::cudatoolkit` for ppc64le, but the docker image is still useful to have
    * Even though we can't redistribute `defaults::cudatoolkit` we are doing it via docker as we are caching it.
    * Notes:
        * Make it clear to users that this docker image doesn't have cudatoolkit and why it doesn't have cudatoolkit.

* [x] (WV) "standardization" of a next gen package format and other parts of the conda ecosystem
    * Make available specs public? E.g: https://anaconda.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AD/pages/90210540/Conda+package+format+v2
    * Some notes regarding a next version of the package spec are written down here: https://hackmd.io/axI1tQdwQB2pTJKt5XdY5w
        * this current spec doesn't support everything one needs for the current stack
    * also some discussion on gitter and at bot subteam meeting a few months ago
        * using python as the language came up more than once
            * objections are that it is not static metadata and might be too hard to parse
        * deprecate selectors in favor of ...
            * jinja2 if statements (hard to parse)
            * letting any value in the config be a dict with the selector info in the key
                * this follows what rust does in their TOML
                * very easy to parse
                * always results in valid YAML
        * deprecate the use of some jinja2 elements (any control flow elements) since they are hard to parse
    * related to the conda working group that Kale is organizing
    * Interest
        * Jonathan Helmus
        * Wolf
        * Marcel
        * Scopatz
            * specifically interested in the activation scripts
        * Cheng?
        * Matt B.
        * Marcelo
        * Mike S.
        * John

* [x] (UK) static libraries in conda-forge
    * Our toolstack and systems are tailored for dynamic linkage, thus we want to focus on that in conda-forge
    * Users are interested in static libraries for some use cases, e.g.
        * Building wheels for PyPI on Windows
        * (MRB) Do we want to make a better effort to support this? Marking static packages and doing small
          migrations when we move compilers as needed? Our answer has been no. (UK: Note that the reported breakages were because of LTO-
          enabled static libraries, that's a next level)
        * static libraries can have compatibility concerns with compilers and ld/binutils
    * Go and Rust are separate discussions (packaging and licensing, etc.)
    * What do we do about accidental leakage?
        * remove them or mandate a split package
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [ ] Recommend how to package them
    * [ ] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea.


### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

##### Stuff from last week that we didnt get to

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

* (ED) Any other updates on this one? Need any help?
    * (MRB) CFEP-13 is done.
        * Isuru suggested using the github api and that worked. Thanks!
        * All feedstocks converted over and staged-recipes is making new feedstocks with the right keys/tokens.
        * To move forward, we simply have to deactivate the binstar token and put a new one on heroku.
        * I will make an announcement and give people a few weeks.
        * We probably want to solve the rerendering issues with github first.
* (MRB) next up is better user management

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### Last meeting
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"

### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] (CJ) Institutional Partners page in docs
    * [ ] TODO: Submit skeleton for PR into conda-forge.github.io repo


### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [x] Remove conda forge readthedocs.
    * done already
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954