# 2020-07-22 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees
* Filipe Fernandes
* Jonathan Helmus
* Keith Kraus
* Eric Dill
* Wolf Vollprecht
* Marius van Niekerk
* Matthew Becker
* Anthony Scopatz
* CJ Wright
* Michael Sarahan
* Cheng Lee
* Marcell Bargull
* Isuru Fernando
* Ray Douglass
* Marcelo Duarte Trevisani
* John Kirkham
* Uwe Korn
* Sylvain Corlay

## Agenda

### Standing items
* [x] (CJ) budget, also finance subteam creation
  * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1093
* [x] intros for new folks on the call

### Your new agenda items

### Stuff from last week that we didn't get to

* [x] (CL) msys2 packages
    - Anaconda deciding on update plans for "defaults" channel
    - No immediate action needed at this time

* [x] (CJ) rebuild migration automerges default
    - Currently either automerge is (org-wide?) on or off, but it would be good to allow ppl to 
      choose to automerge only for rebuilds and not version updates
    - These automerges may be safer than version automerges, since the deps 
      don't change and the build is more likely to fail if the package would be broken.
    - https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/pull/1063
    - Overall response is positive, we need to document/announce this change

* [x] (CJ) s390x support 
    - https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1359
    - What is the minimum level of support we need before we would accept this
    - Should outline concerns in issue
    - Ask to first add platform to numpy/scipy CI?
    - Ask to build gcc?

* [x] What should we do with feedstocks that are not being maintained?
    - Allow people who use package to step up to maintainance
    - Should be aggresive on archiving feedstocks
        - And remove maintainers
    - Advertise un-maintained feedstocks (in docs?)
    - Notify for when a feedstock repo depends on something archived?
    - todo: cleanup teams post removal of users

* [x] (FF) new conda-build release that fixes the Windows prefix issue
    - https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/3909#issuecomment-62658654
    - coming soon, JJH will keep core updated on progress
      
* [x] (MRB) pinning epochs draft CFEP
    * see the draft here: https://hackmd.io/N1hoJGJBSqGTFd83pxCyYA
    * idea is to declare some pinning file as a pinning epoch
    * then we render a recipe with the epoch's pinnings and the latest pinnings
    * discussion around burden on maintainers 
        * opt-in vs opt-out model
    * discussion around how many of these we want to support
        * current suggestion (Uwe) is at most 2 pinnings + latest
        * tag pinning epochs every 6 months to a year or so which creates a ~yearly deprecation cycle
    * the bot will need to issue PRs to update feedstocks to next pinnings epoch as we move them along
    * Alternative to build for multiple version of boost
        * Make boost a matrix
            * 1.70 (again) and 1.72
            * Keep a pinned boost version for at least [some time]?
        * Should we do similar for ICU ?
            * Uwe seemed to indicate no

* [ ] (ED) Welcome packets for new members and contributors? -- Delayed
    * new contributors to staged-recipes 
        * stickers mailed to an address of their choosing?
    * Staged-recipes
        * new contributors plus a mug
    * Subteams?
        * As above plus any subteam specific stuff (e.g., maybe we need a bot sticker)
    * Core
        * staged-recipes plus a tshirt
    * Concerns:
        * cost
        * who would mail stuff
        * privacy around people giving us a mailing address
        * https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/
        * https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/conda-forge+official+logo?idea=5bce3b332051763003022d31

* [ ] (KK) Remove deprecation/warning of pre-link scripts in conda-build
    * Warning currently swallows messages from our (NVIDIA) testing
    * Used in conda forge packages currently according to jakirkham
    * Would be good to allow packages with proprietary licenses to display some message before package is actually installed
        * NVIDIA legal would prefer this for CUDA related packages, and want to pave the way for shipping compiler, headers, and other EULA protected bits

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems

* [ ] still need to finish CFEP-13 (can move ahead now that latest smithy is out)

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020
    * (MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?

* [cfep-17](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds
    * Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt
    * **UPDATE 2020-07-22**: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock 
      on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).

## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### This meeting
* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes
* [ ] (Eric) TODO: Make strict an option in conda_forge.yaml and turn it on by default. Open issue in conda-smithy


### Last meeting
    
### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] Eric to add a new page to our docs around how to engage with conda-forge and affiliated in a commercial relationship.
* [ ] Eric will get the NVBug link from Keith and archive it in the conda-forge google drive.
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

### 3 meetings ago

### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18

