# 2020-01-08 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees

## Agenda

### Your agenda items

- (FF) We have a blog: https://github.com/conda-forge/blog
  All we need now is a blog ;-p
  * https://conda-forge.org/blog/

### Subteam updates

#### Bot
- (CJ) Major bot refactor has finished, most of the code is now in IDE friendly, type hinted python
- (CJ) Matt Becker has joined the bot subteam
    - wants to push on auto-merging green bot PRs. At least looking at what infrastructure needs to be set up for that.
        - (Marcel) makes sense if its opt-in. 
        - (Eric) would suggest opt-in at start to work out kinks, once stable switch to opt-out.
    - look at issue tracker for more info
    - UX around abandoned feedstocks? pseudo-abandoned
- (CJ) Version bump PRs now close open version PRs for previous versions
    - Merging the newer version bump PR will close the older version bump PR.
- (jakirkham) use linter bot to update bot's graph with PR status

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

* (jakirkham) CUDA 10.2 migration
    * (CJ) the bot doesn't handle run_exports at all. It's particularly glaring with run_exports strong. Usually fuse host / run to figure dependencies. Does not use build for dependency tracking. Has some notes / issues that descirbes this a bit https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/677. TODO: Make a lookup table for the strong run_exports. Before making edges in graph, add in the run_exports strong requirements to the dependencies. This should propery express dependencies in the graph.
    * (jakirkham) needs pointers from CJ as to where in the bot to make these updates.
    * (CJ) question: Using `render` from the conda public API. This doesn't seem to add the run_exports to the meta.yaml. Is there another function to use that does add the run_exports to the rendered? A: this function needs all of the jinja variables provided or the rendered dictionary wont be correct.
    * (jakirkham) Discussion to have. Break cudatoolkit into two packages: cudatoolkit runtime and the rest.

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

* (Eric) (finally) renamed conda-forge-enhancement-proposals to cfep

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-03](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/5) Manual upload of builds
    * Has 10 approvals, what are next steps here?
    * Merged today!

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * jjhelmus to add a comment to this PR about what we discussed today. Ping jjhelmus about tk. It's not clear if we can even build tk against a non system X11 because tk ships its own X11 headers that the conda X11 package doesn't work against

* [cfep-05](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/3) dev/rc builds
    * Seems that there was voting, but did anything come of it?
    * CJ to make formal vote call on this. Will check in next week
        * Vote issued

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * Has some recent comments from @saraedum that are unaddressed
    * Ask staged-recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward.

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * Discussion around maintainers removing themselves
    * Maybe move to a x number of versions away from most recent
    * https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/blob/master/status/could_use_help.json
    * CJ to make a call to vote

* [cfep-11](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/18) Automated Closing of Excessively Old PRs on Staged Recipes
    * Has a 8 approvals. what are next steps?
    * Next steps: Merge PR and ping staged-recipes team they can implement if they want?


## Discussion

## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### Last meeting
* [ ] cfep-11 next steps: Merge PR and ping staged-recipes team they can implement if they want?
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] cfep-04 next steps: jjhelmus to add a comment per notes above
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
### 2 meetings ago

### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] (Filipe) CFEP-03: Review, fix any text and merge it in.
    * Minor updates that are needed. This will likely get done in December.
* [ ] (CJ) CFEP-08: Merge in with deferred status
    * Will check in next meeting.

### 4 meetings ago


### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.


