# conda-forge core meeting 2022-09-21

Add new agenda items under the `Your __new__() agenda items` heading

[last weeks meeting](https://hackmd.io/tdkRcPT3QCSkGkABpuKmTg)
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==)
Meeting info: 
* To join the video meeting, click this link: https://zoom.us/j/9138593505?pwd=SWh3dE1IK05LV01Qa0FJZ1ZpMzJLZz09
* Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +1 347-384-8597 and enter this PIN: 828 997 153#
* To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/ijv-qsvm-tvn?hs=5

## Attendees

| Name                    | Initials | GitHub ID        | Affiliation                 |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------  | --------------------------- |
| Dave Clements           | DPC      | tnabtaf          | Anaconda                    |
| Eric Dill               | ED       | ericdill         | cf / voltron data           |
| Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra  | JRG      | jaimergp         | cf / Quansight              |
| Matthew R Becker        | MRB      | beckermr         | cf |
| Katherine Kinnaman      | KK       | kathatherine     | Anaconda                    |
| Isuru Fernando          | IF       | isuruf           | cf |
| Cheng H. Lee            | CHL      | chenghlee.       | cf / Anaconda               |
| Filipe Fernandes        | FF       | ocefpaf          | cf                          |
| Marcelo Trevisani       | MDT      | marcelotrevisani | cd                          |
| | | | |

17 people total


### Standing items

* [x] intros for new folks on the call
    * mark - software engineer - here to talk about julia

* [x] open votes
    * MRB - no open votes. lots of people asking about staged recipes. can someone else pick this up?
    * ED will take on the call for a vote.

### From previous meeting(s)

### Your __new__() agenda items

* [x] (JK) CUDA licensing update
    * new CUDA license amendment proposal
    * NVIDIA wants the option to remove packages if needed
    * MRB - packages could only be built with nvidia approved scripts? feels somewhat anti-community
    * JK wants people to share feedback on the proposal.
* [X] (MK/IF) packages depending on julia packages
* [ ] (DPC) Does conda-forge have an interest in directing our community towards the soon to be announced [conda Discourse site](https://conda.discourse.group/)?
    * Could see a lot of traffic moving from Gitter to the [Package Builders category](https://conda.discourse.group/c/pkg-building/15) in Discourse (possibly in a conda-forge subcategory?)
    * Could also see some discussion happening in the [Contributors ⇒ Infra category](https://conda.discourse.group/c/contrib/infra/13) (or in a conda-forge subcategory)
    * Site is going live next week.
* [ ] (AO) new python patch releases & breaking changes in int()/str() roundtrip (limit of 4300 characters)
    * https://discuss.python.org/t/int-str-conversions-broken-in-latest-python-bugfix-releases/18889 
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/python-feedstock/pull/579 (initial feeling was to wait, but upstream will not change back it seems)
    * Indefinitely holding up patch releases not an option IMO; people get CVE warnings for older releases.
    * Thoughts?
    * (CHL) While we're at it, what should we do about CVE-2015-20107 (mailcap)?
        * [3.10 backport](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/93543) finally got accepted
* [ ] (MRB) anything we should think about with cirrus-ci for apple silicon?
    * [ ] status of native-native compilers?
    * [ ] need a smithy PR OFC
    * [ ] do we want to get in touch with them directly?
* [ ] (AO) cross-compile CUDA on aarch64/ppc64le?
    * Inspired by arrow-cpp where building CUDA on aarch forces all of aarch to be emulated (cannot distinguish build_platform in conda-forge.yml based on CUDA)
    * The emulated builds time out ~50% of the time, and switching PPC over as well would mean we'd need 5-6 restarts of 6h runs each for passing CI
    * Idea was to figure out the missing pieces (ties into the EULA discussion since KK said we cannot use bits of the existing (e.g.) ppc-images conformantly)
    * AFAIU, we'd "only" need an aarch64/ppc64le libcuda stub as a host lib within the x64 build image, but most likely I'm overlooking a bunch of stuff.


### Active votes

* [cfep-21](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/47) license packages for static/header libraries
	* Opened July 25, 2022 ends August 2, 2022


### CFEPs

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Stalled since May 26, 2020
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11
    * What were the results of the vote?
    * Did we hear back from NumFOCUS? they did the legal seminar which is recorded

### TODOs
[2022-06-15](https://hackmd.io/tdkRcPT3QCSkGkABpuKmTg)
* [ ] (MvN) vs2022 compiler support
    * Initial stab at some pieces https://github.com/conda-forge/vc-feedstock/pull/46
    * This is a new VC version
        * Uses existing UCRT
    * Would need to use the windows-2022 github actions image
    * TODO: follow on to change the name of the runtime to vc_runtime
    * TODO: will need patches for msys epoch for UCRT
    * (CHL) For reference: [msys2 environments](https://www.msys2.org/docs/environments/) - pick your own compiler + libstdc++ + Windows runtime adventure 
    * https://www.msys2.org/docs/package-naming/
    * (RG) "we need some version of mingw-w64 for SciPy 1.9.0 too, MSVC + gfortran will no longer work. we use an Rtools toolchain in CI now"
* [ ] (CHL) How does conda-forge use channeldata.json?
    * Only known use by c-f: counting # of package namespaces for "By the numbers" on the webpage; other uses deprecated
    * TODO: CEP to deprecate & remove `--use-channeldata` from `conda-build`
    * TODO: CEP to add run exports to `repodata.json`

[2022-04-05](https://hackmd.io/CqkOlf0XQMOh23Wnmt9qTQ)

* TODO: Articulate suggested mechanism for "so you're thinking about taking a contract to work on conda-forge". tl;dr is you should work on a design doc with the impacted parties (or working groups, or interested folks) on the conda-forge side. Once you have agreement on the scope, delivery timeline, and anything that's needed from the conda-forge volunteer side, go ahead and sign that contract with your payer. if you don't do this first, you may encounter some difficulties finishing delivery of your contractual agreement with your payer.

2022-01-12
* review Qt PR after logs are uploaded
* Add cupython and cuquantum to don't mirror list (MRB done)
* re: `std=c++14`, Wait for Kai to comment and merge the PR
* CJ and Jaime coordinate to Let Maxiconda know that we can't use their logo
2021-12-01
* WV: Set up meet-and-greet call with homebrew team?
* MRB: (repodata patches) make a cron job that runs show_diff.py and posts an issue + commit if it is non-empty
* 
2021-11-03
- Self-hosting CI TODOs: 
    - Change URL from drone.conda-forge.org. Proposals:
        - woodpecker.conda-forge.org
        - ci.conda-forge.org
    - Set up monitoring
        - Quantstack is setting up grafana for the mirror
    - 

2021-10-18

2021-09-22

* [x] (WV): TensorFlow-GPU ready to go, just need to decide if GPU should get prio over CPU?!
    * GPU gets prio


2020-11-18
* [ ] (IF/MRB/MV) intel oneAPI
    * todo
        * [ ] (Nikolay) licensing for opencl_rt
        * [ ] (Nikolay) intelmpi ABI compat w/ mpich
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) figure out how exactly to package C/C++ compilers
        * [ ] (MRB/IF) think about fortran ABI 
        * [x] (MRB) make conda-forge compilers room (add people including keith)
* [ ] (MB) asking core members to move to "emeritus" status
    * [ ] TODO: Eric to set up quarterly check-in for all core members to see if they're interested in remaining "active" or if they want to move to emeritus
        * Remove emeritus folks from having access to various credentials (api tokens, twitter password, etc.)? This would require a change to the governance doc.

2020-11-11
* TODO: Think about bringing in JOSS to provide context around how we might best write papers

2020-11-03
* TODO: Check on Forrest Watters permissions for core

2020-10-28
2020-10-21
* [ ] (Marius?) Python 2.7 migration
    * ( ) [ ] make a hint
    * ( ) [ ] make an announcement
    * ( ) [ ] make the hint a lint

2020-10-07
* [ ] Make sure to add the NVBug info to the cudatoolkit package that conda-forge makes (if we make one)

2020-09-09
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/master/src/inst_partners.yaml
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access

2020-08-26
**Docker hub**
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation.
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
    * [ ] Check in again at some point. We haven't heard back as of 2020-09-23

**OVH**
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. "Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM", etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)


* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping @kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes

* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.) 
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7)

* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:
    * who's the POC for CF <> Anaconda, CF <> NumFocus, CF <> Azure
    * who's the POC for the various subteams?
    * Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you're here, etc.
    * Public or internal? I don't really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
    * opt-in to public bios
    * software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has https://carpentries.org/instructors
    * some concern about "yet another place to keep stuff up to date"
* [ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge
* [ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff
    * [ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them
    * [x] Recommend how to package them -> CFEP-18
    * [x] We should write docs saying we don't provide support and this is a bad idea. -> CFEP-18
