# 2020-04-01 conda-forge core meeting 


## Attendees
 - MS, ED, LB, CJ, AS, MB, Matt B, FF, JH, Uwe

## Agenda

### Your agenda items
* [Matt B] 
  - Should we have an official policy around updates/support for our compiler stack? 
      - they are not interested in paid support. 
      - If there is a switch they are going to get a loud alert? (YES!)
          - The main problem that the LSST called out was the gcc 5 break.
      - answer: no policy because we don't have the bandwidth - it is done adhoc, expect gcc9 in the next 2-3 years
  - Also do we have a name for our compiler stack? (gcc7?)
  - For context, I got a query from a big scientific project (the data management team for the Vera Rubin Observatory).
    They are moving their entire software stack to use conda-forge + it's compilers (based on work I did for them
    showing them how to do it! yay!). They are wondering about how the compilers might change in the next 2-3 years and 
    what label they might apply to their internal systems to track the compiler stack version as a whole. Note they 
    only use linux and osx AFAIK.

* We should publish the way that we decide what pinnings to use and when things change.
    
* Update to gcc 9? jjhelmus wants it done soon, but definitely sometime in the next 2 years
    * gfortran compat break between 7 and 8.  9 is compatible with 8. Details at https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/LibgfortranAbiCleanup

### Active votes

### Subteam updates

#### Bot
* [CJ] Bot auto issues migrator PRs into pinnings
    * What cadence do we want for these? Do maintainers decide? Where would this live?
* [CJ] Should we wait for a version beyond R `4.0.0` for migration (mostly a question for the bioconda folks)?

* What are we updating when?
 - root break micro but we push everything
 - hdf5 breaks everything so we do that once a year
 - libnetcdf is pinned to micro version
 - boost pin to micro do every other
 - tiledb (3 breaks in 18 days, over pinned so should be at 'x.x' instead of 'x.x.x')
 - protobuf breaks at micro (~once a year)
 
* proposed solution:
 - bot team put the rules of thumb above into some form in pinnings 
 - will be documented
 - core will defer to maintainers
 - we'll see how this goes...

#### ARM

#### POWER

#### CUDA

#### Docs

#### staged-recipes

#### website

#### security+systems
* CFEP was merged
* if you want to join us (AS, CJ, Matt B.), please let me know!
* currently merging a weekly meeting of this sub-team with the bot sub-team
* no formal plans yet
* CFEP-13 implementation is ongoing - blocked on appveyor+vs2017 deprecation right now

### CI infrastructure

#### Compiler upgrade

### CFEP updates

* [cfep-14](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/25) security and systems subteam
    * Accepted

* [cfep-15](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/26) Deprecate Python 2.7 and vs2008
    * Accepted

#### Open PRs

* [cfep-04](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7) X11 and CDT policy
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020

* [cfep-06](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9) Staged-recipes review lifecycle
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Lingering comment from @saraedum. @jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from @saraedum from Jan 8, 2020

* [cfep-10](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained
    * INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?
    * Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020

* [cfep-12](https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package
    * Active debate about moving to "broken" vs deleting from conda-forge channel
    * Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11

## Discussion


## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.

### Last meeting
* [x] (Matt Becker) Update the docs with our current thinking / principles.


### 2 meetings ago


### 3 meetings ago
* Remove conda forge readthedocs.
* [ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today
* [ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks
* [ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)
    * https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954

### Move to Issue Tracker

* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham & CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda <-> conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering
    * Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.
* [ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.
* [ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels & flying folks from the community in?
* [ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?
* [ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python's we're going to support.
