


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text:400,i,b,bi|Open+Sans:400,i,b,bi|Roboto+Mono:400,i,b,bi&amp;display=swap" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../../" src="../../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/doctools.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-05-13.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-06-22.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-05-13.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-06-22.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2020-05-27 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<hr class="docutils" />
<p>## Attendees</p>
<p>## Agenda</p>
<p>### Your agenda items
* [x] (all) intros for new people on the line?</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Marcelo!</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul>
<li><p>[x] (CJ) standing budget item</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (CJ) institutional partners metadata (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1028">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1028</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (ED) Should we just merge in the cfep PRs with the status of “deferred” since there’s zero action on any of them?</p></li>
<li><dl>
<dt>[x] (MRB) change how we mark packages as broken</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>currently we move packages to broken and remove them from main</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>this means users cannot recreate old envs where a package was marked as broken</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>new system would leave packages on main (only add broken label) and then remove them
via the removals section of the repo data patches</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>this is how defaults does it</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p>do we need to announce this before switching? should we switch?</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>side effects are that this procedure leaves the repodata in weird states</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>the only source of truth is the one on the CDN (any other source is wrong)</p></li>
<li><p>packages can have different looking requirements between broken and main labels even on the CDN</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>matching defaults is probably more important than the things above</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>TODO:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] document how users are supposed to interpret broken label</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] update how we, as core, are supposed to mark packages as broken</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CJ) I’d like to form a finance subteam, if you are interested in serving please let me know.</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>numfocus point of contact</p></li>
<li><p>responsible for letting core know where we stand financially</p></li>
<li><p>pending financial matters</p></li>
<li><p>acting as final approvers</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (JJH) Should tk require freetype and X11? <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/tk-feedstock/pull/40">https://github.com/conda-forge/tk-feedstock/pull/40</a></dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Fonts will look nicer in TK applications</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Introduces new requirements (and download/disk space) to Python</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>fontconfig: 300kb, freetype: 1mb</p></li>
<li><p>some additional packages needed as well</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Recommendation is to create two variants, with and without “nice fonts”</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (IF) Making a linux-anvil-ppc64le package and distributing cudatoolkit in the docker image</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/113">https://github.com/conda-forge/docker-images/pull/113</a></p></li>
<li><p>There’s no <cite>defaults::cudatoolkit</cite> for ppc64le, but the docker image is still useful to have</p></li>
<li><p>Even though we can’t redistribute <cite>defaults::cudatoolkit</cite> we are doing it via docker as we are caching it.</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Notes:</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Make it clear to users that this docker image doesn’t have cudatoolkit and why it doesn’t have cudatoolkit.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (WV) “standardization” of a next gen package format and other parts of the conda ecosystem</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Make available specs public? E.g: <a class="reference external" href="https://anaconda.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AD/pages/90210540/Conda+package+format+v2">https://anaconda.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AD/pages/90210540/Conda+package+format+v2</a></p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Some notes regarding a next version of the package spec are written down here: <a class="reference external" href="https://hackmd.io/axI1tQdwQB2pTJKt5XdY5w">https://hackmd.io/axI1tQdwQB2pTJKt5XdY5w</a></dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>this current spec doesn’t support everything one needs for the current stack</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>also some discussion on gitter and at bot subteam meeting a few months ago</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>using python as the language came up more than once</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>objections are that it is not static metadata and might be too hard to parse</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>deprecate selectors in favor of …</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>jinja2 if statements (hard to parse)</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>letting any value in the config be a dict with the selector info in the key</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>this follows what rust does in their TOML</p></li>
<li><p>very easy to parse</p></li>
<li><p>always results in valid YAML</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>deprecate the use of some jinja2 elements (any control flow elements) since they are hard to parse</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>related to the conda working group that Kale is organizing</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Interest</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Jonathan Helmus</p></li>
<li><p>Wolf</p></li>
<li><p>Marcel</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Scopatz</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>specifically interested in the activation scripts</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Cheng?</p></li>
<li><p>Matt B.</p></li>
<li><p>Marcelo</p></li>
<li><p>Mike S.</p></li>
<li><p>John</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (UK) static libraries in conda-forge</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Our toolstack and systems are tailored for dynamic linkage, thus we want to focus on that in conda-forge</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Users are interested in static libraries for some use cases, e.g.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Building wheels for PyPI on Windows</p></li>
<li><p>(MRB) Do we want to make a better effort to support this? Marking static packages and doing small
migrations when we move compilers as needed? Our answer has been no. (UK: Note that the reported breakages were because of LTO-
enabled static libraries, that’s a next level)</p></li>
<li><p>static libraries can have compatibility concerns with compilers and ld/binutils</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Go and Rust are separate discussions (packaging and licensing, etc.)</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>What do we do about accidental leakage?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>remove them or mandate a split package</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] Recommend how to package them</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] We should write docs saying we don’t provide support and this is a bad idea.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### Active votes</p>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<p>##### Stuff from last week that we didnt get to</p>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### POWER</p>
<p>#### CUDA</p>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>#### security+systems</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(ED) Any other updates on this one? Need any help?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(MRB) CFEP-13 is done.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Isuru suggested using the github api and that worked. Thanks!</p></li>
<li><p>All feedstocks converted over and staged-recipes is making new feedstocks with the right keys/tokens.</p></li>
<li><p>To move forward, we simply have to deactivate the binstar token and put a new one on heroku.</p></li>
<li><p>I will make an announcement and give people a few weeks.</p></li>
<li><p>We probably want to solve the rerendering issues with github first.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>(MRB) next up is better user management</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### CI infrastructure</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade</p>
<p>### CFEP updates</p>
<p>#### Open PRs</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-04](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7</a>) X11 and CDT policy</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-06](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9</a>) Staged-recipes review lifecycle</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Lingering comment from &#64;saraedum. &#64;jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from &#64;saraedum from Jan 8, 2020</p></li>
<li><p>(MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-12](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23</a>) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Active debate about moving to “broken” vs deleting from conda-forge channel</p></li>
<li><p>Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11</p></li>
<li><p>What were the results of the vote?</p></li>
<li><p>Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### Last meeting
* [ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>who’s the POC for CF &lt;&gt; Anaconda, CF &lt;&gt; NumFocus, CF &lt;&gt; Azure</p></li>
<li><p>who’s the POC for the various subteams?</p></li>
<li><p>Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you’re here, etc.</p></li>
<li><p>Public or internal? I don’t really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?</p></li>
<li><p>opt-in to public bios</p></li>
<li><p>software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has <a class="reference external" href="https://carpentries.org/instructors">https://carpentries.org/instructors</a></p></li>
<li><p>some concern about “yet another place to keep stuff up to date”</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] (CJ) Institutional Partners page in docs</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] TODO: Submit skeleton for PR into conda-forge.github.io repo</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>### Move to Issue Tracker</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] jakirkham &amp; CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels &amp; flying folks from the community in?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python’s we’re going to support</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] Remove conda forge readthedocs.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>done already</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../contracting/00_intro.html">Contracting Information</a></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/announcements.html">Announcements</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-06-22.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-05-13.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../../_sources/orga/minutes/2020-05-27.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-05-13.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-06-22.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2021, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.5.3.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>