


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text:400,i,b,bi|Open+Sans:400,i,b,bi|Roboto+Mono:400,i,b,bi&amp;display=swap" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../../" src="../../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/doctools.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-04-29.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-05-27.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-04-29.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-05-27.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2020-05-13 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<hr class="docutils" />
<dl class="simple">
<dt>## Attendees</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Jonathan Helmus</p></li>
<li><p>Filipe Fernandes</p></li>
<li><p>Eric Dill</p></li>
<li><p>Michael Sarahan</p></li>
<li><p>Marcel Bargull</p></li>
<li><p>CJ Wright</p></li>
<li><p>Wolf Vollprecht</p></li>
<li><p>Ray Douglass</p></li>
<li><p>Keith Kraus</p></li>
<li><p>Cheng Lee</p></li>
<li><p>DJ Sutherland</p></li>
<li><p>Matthew Becker</p></li>
<li><p>Patrick Sodre</p></li>
<li><p>Lori Burns</p></li>
<li><p>Josh Adelman</p></li>
<li><p>Uwe Korn</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>## Agenda</p>
<p>### Your agenda items
* (all) intros for new people on the line?</p>
<p>Stuff from 2 meetings ago we didn’t get to
* [CJ/Matt] R 4.0.0 migration is done</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>worked really well with automerge and mamba solvability checks</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[CJ] Better understanding/handling of run_exports</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Particularly applicable to issues involving boost and header only deps <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/960">https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/issues/960</a></p></li>
<li><p>numpy too at some level</p></li>
<li><p>[FF] I asked Isuru about numpy and he mentioned that he does not have any technical problems with this but he believes it is confusing.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Stuff from last week we didn’t get to</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(CJ) adding a standing budget item to the agenda</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://hackmd.io/LJ0qevsoQnKAMwBlQ1YQYA">https://hackmd.io/LJ0qevsoQnKAMwBlQ1YQYA</a></p></li>
<li><p>CJ owns this moving forward</p></li>
<li><p>Setup finance team to own this in the future</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(Filipe) Enforce 2FA for GH / NF donations? bot / donations discussion in core gitter</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>(Becker/Isuru) Stuff about bots and 2fa and phone numbers</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] Patrick TODO: figure out who needs to turn on 2fa and publicly shame them in core gitter channel.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(eric) Quick chat about stuff from last time</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>do we need a follow-on more focused group for mingw stuff?</p></li>
<li><p>any other questions about Anaconda’s TOS changes for repo.anaconda.com?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### STUFF FOR THIS MEETING BETWEEN THESE HEADINGS</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>(CJ) instiutional partners metadata (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1028">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1028</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>(Filipe) GSOC student - CJ / Jonathan / Isuru are noted as mentored. Doing meetings with bot team.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### STUFF FOR THIS MEETING BETWEEN THESE HEADINGS</p>
<p>low-ish priority stuff to get to if we have time
* (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>who’s the POC for CF &lt;&gt; Anaconda, CF &lt;&gt; NumFocus, CF &lt;&gt; Azure</p></li>
<li><p>who’s the POC for the various subteams?</p></li>
<li><p>Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you’re here, etc.</p></li>
<li><p>Public or internal? I don’t really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?</p></li>
<li><p>opt-in to public bios</p></li>
<li><p>software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has <a class="reference external" href="https://carpentries.org/instructors">https://carpentries.org/instructors</a></p></li>
<li><p>some concern about “yet another place to keep stuff up to date”</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>### Active votes</p>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<p>##### Stuff from last week that we didnt get to</p>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### POWER</p>
<p>#### CUDA</p>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>[MRB] FYI the blog pages got spruced up</p>
<p>#### security+systems</p>
<p>[MRB] FYI CFEP-13 roll out on ice until I can make the web server faster or switch to something else</p>
<p>### CI infrastructure</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade</p>
<p>### CFEP updates</p>
<p>#### Open PRs</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-04](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7</a>) X11 and CDT policy</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-06](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9</a>) Staged-recipes review lifecycle</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Lingering comment from &#64;saraedum. &#64;jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from &#64;saraedum from Jan 8, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-12](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23</a>) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Active debate about moving to “broken” vs deleting from conda-forge channel</p></li>
<li><p>Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11</p></li>
<li><p>What were the results of the vote?</p></li>
<li><p>Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### Last meeting</p>
<p>### 2 meetings ago
* [x] (ED) schedule mirroring conversation
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [x] (CJ) Merge all the pinnings PRs
* [ ] (CJ) Institutional Partners page in docs</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] TODO: Submit skeleton for PR into conda-forge.github.io repo</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>### 3 meetings ago
* [x] (Matt Becker) Update the docs with our current thinking / principles.</p>
<p>### Move to Issue Tracker</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] jakirkham &amp; CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels &amp; flying folks from the community in?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python’s we’re going to support</p></li>
<li><p>Remove conda forge readthedocs.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../contracting/00_intro.html">Contracting Information</a></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/announcements.html">Announcements</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-05-27.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-04-29.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../../_sources/orga/minutes/2020-05-13.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-04-29.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-05-27.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2021, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.5.3.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>