


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text:400,i,b,bi|Open+Sans:400,i,b,bi|Roboto+Mono:400,i,b,bi&amp;display=swap" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../../" src="../../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/doctools.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-07-15.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-07.29.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-07-15.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-07.29.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2020-07-22 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<hr class="docutils" />
<p>## Attendees
* Filipe Fernandes
* Jonathan Helmus
* Keith Kraus
* Eric Dill
* Wolf Vollprecht
* Marius van Niekerk
* Matthew Becker
* Anthony Scopatz
* CJ Wright
* Michael Sarahan
* Cheng Lee
* Marcell Bargull
* Isuru Fernando
* Ray Douglass
* Marcelo Duarte Trevisani
* John Kirkham
* Uwe Korn
* Sylvain Corlay</p>
<p>## Agenda</p>
<p>### Standing items
* [x] (CJ) budget, also finance subteam creation</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1093">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/pull/1093</a></p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[x] intros for new folks on the call</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### Your new agenda items</p>
<p>### Stuff from last week that we didn’t get to</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CL) msys2 packages</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Anaconda deciding on update plans for “defaults” channel</p></li>
<li><p>No immediate action needed at this time</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CJ) rebuild migration automerges default</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Currently either automerge is (org-wide?) on or off, but it would be good to allow ppl to
choose to automerge only for rebuilds and not version updates</p></li>
<li><p>These automerges may be safer than version automerges, since the deps
don’t change and the build is more likely to fail if the package would be broken.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/pull/1063">https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/pull/1063</a></p></li>
<li><p>Overall response is positive, we need to document/announce this change</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CJ) s390x support</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1359">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-smithy/issues/1359</a></p></li>
<li><p>What is the minimum level of support we need before we would accept this</p></li>
<li><p>Should outline concerns in issue</p></li>
<li><p>Ask to first add platform to numpy/scipy CI?</p></li>
<li><p>Ask to build gcc?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] What should we do with feedstocks that are not being maintained?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Allow people who use package to step up to maintainance</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Should be aggresive on archiving feedstocks</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>And remove maintainers</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Advertise un-maintained feedstocks (in docs?)</p></li>
<li><p>Notify for when a feedstock repo depends on something archived?</p></li>
<li><p>todo: cleanup teams post removal of users</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (FF) new conda-build release that fixes the Windows prefix issue</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/3909#issuecomment-62658654">https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/3909#issuecomment-62658654</a></p></li>
<li><p>coming soon, JJH will keep core updated on progress</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (MRB) pinning epochs draft CFEP</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>see the draft here: <a class="reference external" href="https://hackmd.io/N1hoJGJBSqGTFd83pxCyYA">https://hackmd.io/N1hoJGJBSqGTFd83pxCyYA</a></p></li>
<li><p>idea is to declare some pinning file as a pinning epoch</p></li>
<li><p>then we render a recipe with the epoch’s pinnings and the latest pinnings</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>discussion around burden on maintainers</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>opt-in vs opt-out model</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>discussion around how many of these we want to support</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>current suggestion (Uwe) is at most 2 pinnings + latest</p></li>
<li><p>tag pinning epochs every 6 months to a year or so which creates a ~yearly deprecation cycle</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>the bot will need to issue PRs to update feedstocks to next pinnings epoch as we move them along</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Alternative to build for multiple version of boost</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Make boost a matrix</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>1.70 (again) and 1.72</p></li>
<li><p>Keep a pinned boost version for at least [some time]?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Should we do similar for ICU ?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Uwe seemed to indicate no</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (ED) Welcome packets for new members and contributors? – Delayed</dt><dd><ul>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>new contributors to staged-recipes</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>stickers mailed to an address of their choosing?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Staged-recipes</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>new contributors plus a mug</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Subteams?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>As above plus any subteam specific stuff (e.g., maybe we need a bot sticker)</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Core</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>staged-recipes plus a tshirt</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Concerns:</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>cost</p></li>
<li><p>who would mail stuff</p></li>
<li><p>privacy around people giving us a mailing address</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/">https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/conda-forge+official+logo?idea=5bce3b332051763003022d31">https://shop.spreadshirt.com/numfocus/conda-forge+official+logo?idea=5bce3b332051763003022d31</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (KK) Remove deprecation/warning of pre-link scripts in conda-build</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Warning currently swallows messages from our (NVIDIA) testing</p></li>
<li><p>Used in conda forge packages currently according to jakirkham</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>Would be good to allow packages with proprietary licenses to display some message before package is actually installed</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>NVIDIA legal would prefer this for CUDA related packages, and want to pave the way for shipping compiler, headers, and other EULA protected bits</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### Active votes</p>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### POWER</p>
<p>#### CUDA</p>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>#### security+systems</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] still need to finish CFEP-13 (can move ahead now that latest smithy is out)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>### CI infrastructure</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade</p>
<p>### CFEP updates</p>
<p>#### Open PRs</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-04](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7</a>) X11 and CDT policy</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-06](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9</a>) Staged-recipes review lifecycle</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Lingering comment from &#64;saraedum. &#64;jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from &#64;saraedum from Jan 8, 2020</p></li>
<li><p>(MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-12](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23</a>) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Stalled since May 26, 2020</p></li>
<li><p>Active debate about moving to “broken” vs deleting from conda-forge channel</p></li>
<li><p>Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11</p></li>
<li><p>What were the results of the vote?</p></li>
<li><p>Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-17](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32</a>) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt</p></li>
<li><p><strong>UPDATE 2020-07-22</strong>: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock
on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### This meeting
* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping &#64;kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes
* [ ] (Eric) TODO: Make strict an option in conda_forge.yaml and turn it on by default. Open issue in conda-smithy</p>
<p>### Last meeting</p>
<p>### 2 meetings ago
* [ ] Eric to add a new page to our docs around how to engage with conda-forge and affiliated in a commercial relationship.
* [ ] Eric will get the NVBug link from Keith and archive it in the conda-forge google drive.
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7">https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7</a>)</p>
<p>### 3 meetings ago</p>
<p>### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group
* [ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback
* [ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward
* [ ] jakirkham &amp; CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot
* [ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels &amp; flying folks from the community in?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python’s we’re going to support</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>who’s the POC for CF &lt;&gt; Anaconda, CF &lt;&gt; NumFocus, CF &lt;&gt; Azure</p></li>
<li><p>who’s the POC for the various subteams?</p></li>
<li><p>Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you’re here, etc.</p></li>
<li><p>Public or internal? I don’t really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?</p></li>
<li><p>opt-in to public bios</p></li>
<li><p>software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has <a class="reference external" href="https://carpentries.org/instructors">https://carpentries.org/instructors</a></p></li>
<li><p>some concern about “yet another place to keep stuff up to date”</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>[ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them</p></li>
<li><p>[x] Recommend how to package them -&gt; CFEP-18</p></li>
<li><p>[x] We should write docs saying we don’t provide support and this is a bad idea. -&gt; CFEP-18</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../contracting/00_intro.html">Contracting Information</a></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/announcements.html">Announcements</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-07.29.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-07-15.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../../_sources/orga/minutes/2020-07.22.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-07-15.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-07.29.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2021, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.5.3.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>