


<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>&lt;no title&gt; &#8212; conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/cloud.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Noticia+Text:400,i,b,bi|Open+Sans:400,i,b,bi|Roboto+Mono:400,i,b,bi&amp;display=swap" type="text/css" />
    
    <script id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../../" src="../../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/underscore.js"></script>
    <script src="../../_static/doctools.js"></script>

    
    
     
        <script src="../../_static/jquery.cookie.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.base.js"></script>
    

    
     
        <script src="../../_static/cloud.js"></script>
    

    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-08-26.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="&lt;no title&gt;" href="2020-09-09.html" /> 
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  </head><body>
    <div class="relbar-top">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-08-26.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="N">next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-09-09.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" accesskey="U">Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
  

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
        <div class="bodywrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p># 2020-09-02 conda-forge core meeting</p>
<hr class="docutils" />
<p>[Zoom link](<a class="reference external" href="https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09">https://flatiron.zoom.us/j/93242638216?pwd=bjRCWmVJRW1oTGJhN09VUmxtTTJOUT09</a> )
[What time is the meeting in my time zone](<a class="reference external" href="https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==">https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-08-26/17:00/w/Conda-forge%20dev%20meeting#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2hhY2ttZC5pby9wUk15dFVKV1FmU3NJM2xvMGlqQzJRP2VkaXQifQ==</a>)
[last weeks meeting](<a class="reference external" href="https://hackmd.io/uoxd_bzSRie5Dq1ZrMSvhA">https://hackmd.io/uoxd_bzSRie5Dq1ZrMSvhA</a>)</p>
<p>## Attendees</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Matt B.</p></li>
<li><p>Crystal</p></li>
<li><p>Eric D.</p></li>
<li><p>Marius</p></li>
<li><p>CJ</p></li>
<li><p>Anthony</p></li>
<li><p>Sylvain</p></li>
<li><p>Wolf</p></li>
<li><p>Cheng</p></li>
<li><p>Keith K.</p></li>
<li><p>Mike S.</p></li>
<li><p>few others that didn’t get captured</p></li>
</ul>
<p>## Agenda</p>
<p>### Standing items</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[x] intros for new folks on the call</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CJ) budget</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>current approvals are all up to date.</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>screenshare and show the doc monthly?</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Link is in Keybase (numfocus_spreadsheets.txt)</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Active Vote: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### Your new agenda items</p>
<ul>
<li><p>[x] (MRB) AWS is going to pay our bill 🎉 assuming we can move the account over</p></li>
<li><p>[x] (ED/WV) Machine for Isuru to do windows builds: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/1150</a></p></li>
<li><dl>
<dt>[ ] (IF) Cross compiling python recipes.</dt><dd><p><a href="#id1"><span class="problematic" id="id2">``</span></a><a href="#id3"><span class="problematic" id="id4">`</span></a>yaml
requirements:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="simple">
<dt>build:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>cross-python    # [build_platform != target_platform]</p></li>
<li><p>python          # [build_platform != target_platform]</p></li>
<li><p>pip             # [build_platform != target_platform]</p></li>
<li><p>cython          # [build_platform != target_platform]</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>host:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>python</p></li>
<li><p>pip</p></li>
<li><p>cython</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>run:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>python</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p><a href="#id5"><span class="problematic" id="id6">``</span></a><a href="#id7"><span class="problematic" id="id8">`</span></a></p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] (CHL) Proposals to drop Python 2.7, &lt; 3.6 support</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>conda: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/10180">https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/10180</a></p></li>
<li><p>conda-build: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4024">https://github.com/conda/conda-build/issues/4024</a></p></li>
<li><p>Looking at next major version release; ~2020-Q4 or 2020-Q1</p></li>
<li><p>Possibly consider 3.7 for encoding-related PEPs; choice will depend on how close we are to upstream EOL date for 3.6</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[x] OVH VM: created with the communicated specs. Need to follow up with OVH about getting access.</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>People who need access need to create OVH accounts. Their accounts will be added as maintainers of that project.</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Should probably manage with terraform</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>Add OVH to this yaml: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/master/src/inst_partners.yaml">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/master/src/inst_partners.yaml</a></p></li>
<li><p>Render that yaml into jinja2</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(SC) R bindings for mamba: <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/marimeireles/rhumba">https://github.com/marimeireles/rhumba</a></dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Screencast: <a class="reference external" href="https://user-content.gitter-static.net/eb15dbe3c06bffa8af391f8f58f90240efd15cd5/68747470733a2f2f757365722d696d616765732e67697468756275736572636f6e74656e742e636f6d2f31373630303938322f38393636393235362d61376536626130302d643863652d313165612d383637362d3333313130386532386561322e676966">https://user-content.gitter-static.net/eb15dbe3c06bffa8af391f8f58f90240efd15cd5/68747470733a2f2f757365722d696d616765732e67697468756275736572636f6e74656e742e636f6d2f31373630303938322f38393636393235362d61376536626130302d643863652d313165612d383637362d3333313130386532386561322e676966</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>(MVN)</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>[mapping detector](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/blob/master/conda_forge_tick/pypi_name_mapping.py">https://github.com/regro/cf-scripts/blob/master/conda_forge_tick/pypi_name_mapping.py</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>[mappings](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/tree/master/mappings/pypi">https://github.com/regro/cf-graph-countyfair/tree/master/mappings/pypi</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>Mappings from conda &lt;-&gt; PyPi &lt;-&gt; import_name</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>### Active votes</p>
<p>### Subteam updates</p>
<p>#### Bot</p>
<p>#### ARM</p>
<p>#### POWER</p>
<p>#### CUDA</p>
<p>#### Docs</p>
<p>#### staged-recipes</p>
<p>#### website</p>
<p>#### security+systems</p>
<p>### CI infrastructure</p>
<p>#### Compiler upgrade</p>
<p>### CFEP updates</p>
<p>#### Open PRs</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-04](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/7</a>) X11 and CDT policy</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs new champion. Thanks for your work on this pkgw! Has unaddressed comments from pkgw as from Jan 10, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-06](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/9</a>) Staged-recipes review lifecycle</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Lingering comment from &#64;saraedum. &#64;jakirkham, can you reply? Has unadressed comment from &#64;saraedum from Jan 8, 2020</p></li>
<li><p>(MRB) The stalebot has solved the worst of the issues here. I think we could defer this one permanently.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-10](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-enhancement-proposals/pull/15</a>) Feedstock statuses, unmaintained</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>INACTIVE - Merge in with some inactive-esque status?</p></li>
<li><p>Needs another review. Has unaddressed updates from pkgw as of Jan 11, 2020</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-12](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/23</a>) Removing packages that violate the terms of the source package</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Stalled since May 26, 2020</p></li>
<li><p>Active debate about moving to “broken” vs deleting from conda-forge channel</p></li>
<li><p>Active vote, ends on 2020-03-11</p></li>
<li><p>What were the results of the vote?</p></li>
<li><p>Did we hear back from NumFOCUS?</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[cfep-17](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32">https://github.com/conda-forge/cfep/pull/32</a>) Handling pin backports and dependency rebuilds</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Stalled debate about implementation details between Isuru, CJ and Matt</p></li>
<li><p><strong>UPDATE 2020-07-22</strong>: We in principle have agreement to render the extra pinnings needed directly in the feedstock
on a temporary basis (i.e., until the migration has ended).</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<p>## Discussion</p>
<p>## Check in on previous action items
Copy previous action items from last meeting agenda.</p>
<p>### This meeting
* [ ] (ED) Update governance docs with similar voting model as what got put into conda-tools (+3 with no -1 is a pass)
* [ ] (SC) Write jinja template to turn institutional partners yaml into a website <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/master/src/inst_partners.yaml">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/blob/master/src/inst_partners.yaml</a>
* [ ] (SC) Document what needs to be done to create an OVH account and get access</p>
<p>### Last meeting
<strong>Docker hub</strong>
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers to see if they have the docker hub limitation. Maybe Azure and docker hub
* [ ] (JK) Check in on Azure build workers and see if they have the docker hub limitation
* [ ] (JK) work with dockerhub to see if we can get OSS status
* [ ] (???) start pushing images to quay (github?)
* [ ] (???) put changes in smithy to make sure we can use those other image locations</p>
<p><strong>OVH</strong>
* [ ] (???) build webpage to credit them (and others)
* [ ] If we’re adding a logo, will want to make sure that we have permission to use it.
* [ ] Shout-out on twitter at some point. “Thanks forOVHCloud for providing a VM”, etc. (maybe after we ship qt on windows with it?)</p>
<p>### 3 meetings ago
* [ ] Figure out how to communicate breaking changes to users. Likely should open up an issue immediately for futher discussion. Ping &#64;kkraus, plus capture notes from further up in these meeting notes</p>
<p>### Move to Issue Tracker
* [ ] John K. will update the cuda toolkit feedstock on the git repo to note the NVBug link to the internal NVIDIA issue tracker
* [ ] Jonathan will update docs to note that some non-exhaustive list of packages (like cuda-toolkit, MKL, etc.)
* [ ] Jonathan will review this [PR](<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7">https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes/cudatoolkit-feedstock/pull/7</a>)</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>[ ] (Kale) schedule conda working group</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] cfep-10 next steps: CJ to call a vote for feedback</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] cfep-06 next steps: Ask staged recipes team to champion this CFEP and move it forward</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] jakirkham &amp; CJ-wright to sync on adding CUDA to the migration bot</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (Eric) Scheduling Anaconda &lt;-&gt; conda-forge sync on anaconda.org requirements gathering</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>Will try and get this scheduled in the next month.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (Anthony) Reach out to NumFocus to figure out legal ramifications of not including licenses in files.</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) check internally for funding levels for hotels &amp; flying folks from the community in?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (Eric) Figure out finances of conda-forge to support themselves?</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jjhelmus) Open up CFEP for which python’s we’re going to support</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) write a blog post on CUDA stuff we discussed today</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (jakirkham) update docs on how to add CUDA support to feedstocks</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (jakirkham) will open an issue on conda-smithy to investigate Drone issues. (ping the aarch team)</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954">https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/issues/954</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (ED) Who we are page? Some combination of a FAQ and a who is everyone. FAQ things like:</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>who’s the POC for CF &lt;&gt; Anaconda, CF &lt;&gt; NumFocus, CF &lt;&gt; Azure</p></li>
<li><p>who’s the POC for the various subteams?</p></li>
<li><p>Informal information: roles, day jobs, bios, the whole nine yards, why you’re here, etc.</p></li>
<li><p>Public or internal? I don’t really care either way. Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?</p></li>
<li><p>opt-in to public bios</p></li>
<li><p>software carpentry has a large number of instructors and has <a class="reference external" href="https://carpentries.org/instructors">https://carpentries.org/instructors</a></p></li>
<li><p>some concern about “yet another place to keep stuff up to date”</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><p>[ ] (CJ) Form finance subteam</p></li>
<li><p>[ ] (ED) document strategies for reproducible environments using conda-forge</p></li>
<li><dl class="simple">
<dt>[ ] (UK) Static libraries stuff</dt><dd><ul>
<li><p>[ ] Add linting hints to builds to find them</p></li>
<li><p>[x] Recommend how to package them -&gt; CFEP-18</p></li>
<li><p>[x] We should write docs saying we don’t provide support and this is a bad idea. -&gt; CFEP-18</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="sphinxsidebar" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
        <div class="sphinxsidebarwrapper">
        <p class="logo"><a href="../../index.html" title="index">
          <img class="logo" src="../../_static/logo_black_on_trans.png" alt="Logo"/>
        </a></p><div class="sphinx-toc sphinxlocaltoc">
    <h3><a href="../../index.html">Overview</a></h3>
    <ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/00_intro.html">User Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../maintainer/00_intro.html">Maintainer Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../00_intro.html">Organisation Documentation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../misc/00_intro.html">Miscellaneous</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../contracting/00_intro.html">Contracting Information</a></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../user/announcements.html">Announcements</a></li>
</ul>

  </div>
  <div class="sphinxprev">
    <h4>Previous page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-09-09.html"
                          title="Previous page">&larr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="sphinxnext">
    <h4>Next page</h4>
    <p class="topless"><a href="2020-08-26.html"
                          title="Next page">&rarr; &lt;no title&gt;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div role="note" aria-label="source link">
    <h3>This Page</h3>
    <ul class="this-page-menu">
      <li><a href="../../_sources/orga/minutes/2020-09-02.md.txt"
            rel="nofollow">Show Source</a></li>
    </ul>
   </div>
<div id="searchbox" style="display: none" role="search">
  <h3 id="searchlabel">Quick search</h3>
    <div class="searchformwrapper">
    <form class="search" action="../../search.html" method="get">
      <input type="text" name="q" aria-labelledby="searchlabel" />
      <input type="submit" value="Go" />
    </form>
    </div>
</div>
<script>$('#searchbox').show(0);</script>
        </div>
      </div>
    
    
        <div class="sidebar-toggle-group no-js">
            
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-hide" title="Hide the sidebar menu">
                 «
                <span class="show-for-small">hide menu</span>
                
            </button>
            <button class="sidebar-toggle" id="sidebar-show" title="Show the sidebar menu">
                
                <span class="show-for-small">menu</span>
                <span class="hide-for-small">sidebar</span>
                 »
            </button>
        </div>
    
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="relbar-bottom">
        
    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.html" title="General Index"
             >index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-08-26.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >next</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="2020-09-09.html" title="&lt;no title&gt;"
             >previous</a> &nbsp; &nbsp;</li>
    <li><a href="../../index.html">conda-forge 2021.04.01 documentation</a> &#187;</li>

          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../00_intro.html" >Organisation Documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="00_intro.html" >Core team meeting minutes</a> &#187;</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-this"><a href="">&lt;no title&gt;</a></li> 
      </ul>
    </div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2021, conda-forge.
      Created using <a href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 3.5.3.
    </div>
    <!-- cloud_sptheme 1.4 -->
  </body>
</html>